---
Source:
  - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3WZKacJauKs
Reviewed: false
---
- Image

- Carpal tunnel syndrome is a common condition caused by the compression of the median nerve, which carries sensations from the thumb, index finger, middle finger, and part of the ring finger—primarily on the palm side of the hand—as well as controls most of the muscles in the thumb, some muscles in the forearm that help with finger and wrist movements, and muscles in the index and middle fingers. Carpal tunnel syndrome can result in a variety of symptoms, including tingling and numbness in the thumb and fingers supplied by the nerve, pain, impaired dexterity, weakness of the hand, and poor grip strength. The carpal tunnel is a passageway in the wrist, the floor of which is formed by bones called the carpal bones; the ceiling is created by the transverse carpal ligament. The tunnel creates a pathway for the median nerve and a number of tendons to travel from the forearm to the hand. Because the tunnel is a confined space, if there is an increase in pressure inside it, it can lead to compression of the nerve. Increased pressure in the carpal tunnel is the main factor that contributes to the onset of carpal tunnel syndrome. The cause of increased pressure in the carpal tunnel varies, but risk factors include age, obesity, arthritis, pregnancy, diabetes, and certain occupations that involve working with the hands. Elevated pressure in the carpal tunnel can eventually disrupt blood supply to the median nerve, cause structural changes to the nerve, disrupt nerve function, and lead to the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome. Carpal tunnel syndrome treatments typically include conservative measures such as wrist splinting, anti-inflammatory medications, and ergonomic adjustments to reduce pressure on the median nerve, although in more severe cases, surgery may be necessary.
