## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A sudden, large, transient change in the membrane potential of a cell (i.e. a depolarization) that is capable of propagating to other parts of the cell. It therefore can act as means of signalling to adjacent cells. A prime example is the passage of a nerve impulse, when an action potential travels in a wavelike manner along the axon of a nerve; it causes a localized and transient switch in electric potential across the membrane, typically from -70 mV (millivolts; the resting potential) to +40 mV in a mammalian neuron. Essentially the change in electric potential is caused by an influx of sodium ions $\left(\mathrm{Na}^{+}\right)$via voltage-gated ion channels, which makes the inside of the cell electrically positive with respect to the outside. Then the sodium channels close and voltage-gated potassium channels open, allowing the outflow of potassium ions $\left(\mathrm{K}^{+}\right)$. This has the effect of restoring the resting potential. Nervous stimulation of a muscle fibre also produces an action potential.
- Plants too propagate action potentials, although these travel much more slowly than in neurons. They can transmit signals throughout the plant in response to a localized stimulus, such as the progressive folding of the leaflets of a sensitive plant (Mimosa pudica) in response to touching just a single leaflet. Compare GrADED POTENTIAL. See also MYElin SHEATH.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. The momentary change in the voltage difference across the membrane of a neuron, usually triggered by nerve impulses from several other neurons at synapses (1), characterized by an influx of positively charged sodium ions through the cell membrane, resulting in an impulse being propagated along the neuron's axon, reversing its resting potential of approximately -70 millivolts (mV), the inner surface being negative relative to the outer surface and the membrane more permeable to potassium ions than to sodium ions, and changing it to approximately +40 mV , increasing the permeability of the membrane to sodium ions and resulting in the influx of positively charged ions, thereby propagating the potential from the axon hillock down the axon at a speed ranging from about 0.1 to 10 metres per second. Also called a nerve impulse. See also ALL-OR-NONE LAW, DEPOLARIZATION, EXCITATORY POSTSYNAPTIC POTENTIAL, INHIBITORY POSTSYNAPTIC POTENTIAL, REFRACTORY PERIOD (2), SALTATION (1), SODIUM PUMP. Compare GRADED POTENTIAL.
## Source[^3]
- the change in voltage that occurs across the membrane of a nerve or muscle cell when a nerve impulse is triggered. It is due to the passage of charged particles across the membrane (see DEPOLARIZATION) and is an observable manifestation of the passage of an impulse.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[Home Page - Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]