## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Agriculture encompasses crop and livestock production, [[aquaculture]], and forestry for food and non-food products 
## Source[^2]
- The study and practice of cultivating land for the growing of crops and the rearing of livestock. The increasing demands for food production since the mid-20th century have seen many developments in agricultural technology and practices that have greatly increased crop and livestock production. However, these advances in modern intensive farming techniques have had their impact on the environment, particularly with increased use of fertilizers and pesticides, as well as greenhouse gas emissions from livestock and farming operations. Concerns about intensification, such as degradation of soil, harm to wildlife, and pesticide residues in food, have led to a growth in organic farming, which adheres to more 'natural' husbandry techniques. The now widespread practice of crop monoculture (in which one crop is grown densely over an extensive area) has required an increase in the use of pesticides, as monoculture provides an ideal opportunity for crop pests. Monoculture also requires vast areas of land, which has meant that natural habitats have been destroyed. Deforestation has resulted from the clearing of forests for crop production and cattle rearing. Food supply in many less-developed countries relies on subsistence farming, in which the crops and livestock produced are used solely to feed the farmer and his family. In such countries a system known as slash and burn is common, in which the vegetation in an area is cut down and then burnt, thus returning the minerals to the soil. The area can then be used for crop cultivation until the soil fertility drops, at which point it is then abandoned for a number of years and another site is cultivated. Concerns about greenhouse gas emissions have led to an increased use of arable land to grow biofuel crops, often instead of food crops, prompting further controversy about the ethics of farming practices.
- The selective breeding of crop plants and farm animals has had an enormous impact on productivity in agriculture. Modern varieties of crop plants have increased nutritional value and greater resistance to disease, while animals have been selectively bred to enhance their yields of milk, meat, and other products. Developments in genetic engineering have enabled the introduction to commercial cultivation of genetically modified crop plants, such as tomatoes and soya, which contain genes from other organisms to enhance crop growth, nutritional properties, or storage characteristics. Genetic modification can also confer resistance to herbicides, thereby allowing more effective weed control, as well as improved resistance to insects and other pests and to diseases. The application of similar technology to animal production is being researched. See also GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS (Feature).
## References

[^1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agriculture
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]