## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) A disease of humans characterized by defective cell-mediated immunity and increased susceptibility to infections. It is caused by the retrovirus HIV (human immunodeficiency virus). This infects and destroys helper T cells, which are essential for combating infections. HIV is transmitted in blood, semen, and vaginal fluid; the major routes of infection are unprotected vaginal and anal intercourse, intravenous drug abuse, and the administration of contaminated blood and blood products. A person infected with HIV is described as HIV-positive; after the initial infection the virus can remain generally dormant for up to ten years before AIDS develops. Antiretroviral therapy (ART), which involves a combination of antiviral drugs drawn from several classes, including reverse transcriptase inhibitors (e.g. zidovudine, lamivudine), protease inhibitors, fusion and entry inhibitors, and integrase inhibitors, can enable HIV-positive individuals to lead long and healthy lives.
- http://www.who.int/hiv/en/
	- Latest initiatives to combat HIV and AIDS, with WHO technical reports and statistics
## Source[^2]
- abbrev. Acquired immune (or immuno-) deficiency syndrome, a disorder believed to be caused by the HIV retrovirus and transmitted by infected blood entering the body, especially through transfusion or the sharing of needles by injecting drug users, by sexual intercourse, or from a mother to her unborn child via the placenta. It is characterized by destruction of T lymphocytes and consequent loss of immunity to opportunistic infections. Almost half of all AIDS patients develop HIV dementia. Also written as Aids.
## Source[^3]
- (acquired immune deficiency syndrome) a syndrome first identified in Los Angeles in 1981; a description of the causative virus - the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) - was available in 1983. The virus destroys a subgroup of lymphocytes, the helper T cells (or CD4 lymphocytes), resulting in suppression of the body's immune response (see IMMUNITY). Acute (primary) infection following exposure to the virus results in the production of antibodies (seroconversion); their presence, detected by standard tests, indicates that infection has taken place. Primary infection may be accompanied by mild or severe symptoms, lasting an average of 14 days, including fever, fatigue, lymphadenopathy, headache, and rash. Chronic HIV infection, which follows primary infection, lasts an average of 10 years, during which the person may be asymptomatic; it is followed by the development of AIDS. AIDS can be defined by a CD4 level less than 200 cells $/ \mu$ or by the presence of an AIDS-defining illness, such as Kaposi's sarcoma, recurrent pneumonia (especially caused by Pneumocystis jiroveci), any of various lymphomas, or any of certain cytomegalovirus-related diseases.
- AIDS is largely a sexually transmitted disease, either homosexually or heterosexually. The two other main routes of spread are via infected blood or blood products (as by drug users sharing contaminated needles) and by the maternofetal route. The virus may be transmitted from an infected mother to the child in the uterus or it may be acquired from maternal blood during parturition; it may also be transmitted in breast milk. HIV has been isolated from semen, cervical secretions, plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, tears, saliva, urine, and breast milk but the concentration shows wide variations. Moreover HIV is a fragile virus and does not survive well outside the body. It is therefore considered that ordinary social contact with HIV-positive subjects involves no risk of infection. However, high standards of clinical practice are required by all health workers in order to avoid inadvertent infection via blood, blood products, or body fluids from HIV-positive people. Staff who become HIV-positive are expected to declare their status and will be counselled.
- Until recently, AIDS was considered to be universally fatal, although the type and length of illness preceding death varies considerably. However, with the development of antiretroviral drugs used in dual or triple combinations, AIDS is now perceived as a chronic disease rather than a fatal one.
- https://www.tht.org.uk/
	- Website of the Terence Higgins Trust: includes information on HIV, AIDS, and sexual health
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[Home Page - Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]