## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- An organic compound that contains the -OH group bound to a carbon atom. In systematic chemical nomenclature alcohol names end in the suffix -ol. Examples are methanol, $\mathrm{CH}_{3} \mathrm{OH}$, and ethanol, $\mathrm{C}_{2} \mathrm{H}_{5} \mathrm{OH}$. Alcohols that have two -OH groups in their molecules are diols (or dihydric alcohols), those with three are triols (or trihydric alcohols), etc.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. Ethyl alcohol, a colorless volatile liquid and central nervous system depressant drug that is produced by fermentation of sugar and is the psychoactive constituent of intoxicating beverages. Its pharmacological action, though not fully understood, is in part at least through the facilitation of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA, probably through stimulation of the GABA receptor complex. Although the absorption and bioavailability of alcohol depends on body weight, sex, how recently one has eaten, plus several other factors, roughly one unit of alcohol (one half pint of beer, one glass of wine, or one measure of spirits) taken by an average $150 \mathrm{lb}(68 \mathrm{~kg})$ person generally leads to a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of about $20 \mathrm{mg} / \mathrm{dl}$ and produces measurable deterioration in performance on complex hand-eye coordination tasks; two units taken in quick succession (alcohol normally being metabolized at about one unit per hour) leads to a BAC of $40 \mathrm{mg} / \mathrm{dl}$ and produces in addition a deterioration in visual acuity; three units leads to BAC $60 \mathrm{mg} / \mathrm{dl}$ and a loss of coordination; seven units leads to $140 \mathrm{mg} / \mathrm{dl}$ and confusion, slurred speech, and ataxia; 12 units leads to BAC $240 \mathrm{mg} / \mathrm{dl}$ and coma; and 14 units leads to $280 \mathrm{mg} / \mathrm{dl}$ and death. When a person drinks alcohol, inhibitory processes decline first, resulting in an exaggeration of spinal reflexes and the appearance of forms of behavior (talkative, boisterous, aggressive) that are normally under the influence of social inhibition-this accounts for the mistaken notion that it is a central nervous system stimulant. Also called ethanol . Formula $\mathrm{C}_{2} \mathrm{H}_{5} \mathrm{OH}$. 
- alcoholic adj. 
	- (1) Of or relating to alcohol. n. 
	- (2) A person addicted to alcohol. alcoholism $n$. Addiction to alcohol. See also alcohol-related disorders, drink-driving. \[From Arabic al-koh'l, antimony sulphide, a powder used in the Middle East as a cosmetic to darken the eyelids, from al the + koh'l finely divided, alluding to the fine vapour given off by liquids containing alcohol]
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]