## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. A degenerative brain disease, classified by DSM-5 as a neurocognitive disorder, with insidious onset beginning before 65 years of age, followed by slow development over several years, characterized by dementia called dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT), loss of memory, and emotional instability, accompanied by postmortem evidence of amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and other brain pathology, usually leading to death between four and twelve years after the onset of the disease. Some authorities believe that the amyloid plaques are responsible for the symptoms and that the neurofibrillary tangles are secondary; others believe that the neurofibrillary tangles are primary and the amyloid plaques are secondary. The disorder is associated with a deficit of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and may be caused by mutations in mitochondrial DNA, by a defect in chromosome 14, 19, or 21, or by a prion. See also Clock Drawing Test, Down's syndrome, mild cognitive impairment, Mini-Mental State Examination, neurogenesis, nucleus basalis of Meynert. Compare Pick's disease, sdat. AD abbrev. \[Named after the German neurologist Alois Alzheimer (1864-1915) who first described the brain lesions associated with it in 1907]
## Source[^2]
- The most common form of dementia, occurring in middle age or later. It is characterized by memory impairment and, as the disease progresses, language difficulties, apraxia, and visuospatial problems, leading to a loss of judgment and the inability to carry out even basic functions. At post mortem there are excess deposits of amyloid protein and neurofibrillary tangles in the brain. In rare cases of familial Alzheimer's, mutations in three genes have so far been detected; patients with these genes usually have early-onset dementia. The cause of the common sporadic form is not known although genetic factors can significantly increase the risk of developing the disease. Mutations in four other genes have been implicated in the more common late-onset form of the disease. The demonstration of damage to the cholinergic pathways has led to the development of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, which have been shown to slow disease progression. Ethical problems in the care of someone who has been used to making their own decisions (but now cannot) include respecting what autonomy remains, how to gain valid consent for treatment, and how to allow the patient proper dignity. \[A. Alzheimer (1864-1915), German physician]
- https://www.alzheimers.org.uk/
	- Website of the Alzheimer's Society: includes resources for health and care professionals
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]