## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. loss of feeling or sensation in a part or all of the body. Anaesthesia of a part of the body may occur as a result of injury to or disease of a nerve; for example in trauma. The term is usually applied, however, to the technique of reducing or abolishing an individual's sensation of pain to enable surgery to be performed. This is effected by administering drugs (see ANAESTHETIC).
- General anaesthesia is total unconsciousness, usually achieved by administering a combination of injections and gases (the latter are inhaled through a mask). Local anaesthesia abolishes pain in a limited area of the body and is used for minor operations, particularly many dental procedures. It may be achieved by injections of substances such as lidocaine close to a local nerve, which deadens the tissues supplied by that nerve. Local anaesthesia may be combined with intravenous sedation. An appropriate injection into the spinal column produces spinal anaesthesia or epidural anaesthesia in the lower limbs or abdomen. Regional anaesthesia, usually of a limb, is achieved by encircling local anaesthetic solutions or direct application of anaesthetic to one or more peripheral nerves.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. Absence of sensation or feeling, often resulting from a disorder or induced by anaesthetic (1) drugs or hypnosis, called general anaesthesia when it involves loss of consciousness and local anaesthesia when it affects only a restricted area of the body. US anesthesia. See also ACUPUNCTURE, BATHYANAESTHESIA, CONVERSION SYMPTOM, EPIDURAL ANAESTHETIC, GATE-CONTROL THEORY, GLOVE ANAESTHESIA, NARCOTIC, PALLANAESTHESIA, RAUSCH, SHOE ANAESTHESIA, STOCKING ANAESTHESIA. Compare analgesia. \[Coined in 1846 by the US anatomist and writer Oliver Wendell Holmes (1809-94) from Greek anaisthesia absence of sensation, from an-without + aisthesis feeling + -ia indicating a condition or quality]
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]