## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Buying a good or asset in one market and simultaneously selling in another market where the price is higher. This earns a profit (the difference between the two prices) but does not involve taking any risk. In a financial market arbitrage can involve short-selling one asset, or portfolio, and using the funds to purchase another. Provided the assets (or portfolios) have the same return and risk characteristics this is risk-free. Arbitrage tends to prevent the price of the same good or asset in different markets from moving further apart than a margin equal to transactions costs. Interest arbitrage is borrowing in a market with lower interest rates and simultaneously lending in a market with higher ones. See also NO ARBITRAGE.
## Source[^2]
- The entering into a set of financial obligations to obtain profits with no risk, usually by taking advantage of differences in interest rates, exchange rates, or commodity prices between one market and another. Arbitrage is non-speculative because an arbitrageur will only switch from one market to another if the rates or prices in both markets are known and if the profit to be gained outweighs the costs of the operation. Thus, a large stock of a commodity in a user country may force its price below that in a producing country; if the difference is greater than the cost of shipping the goods back to the producing country, this could provide a profitable opportunity for arbitrage. Similar opportunities arise with bills of exchange and with foreign currencies. A person or firm that engages in arbitrage is known as an arbitrageur.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]