## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (acetylsalicylic acid) $n$. a drug that relieves pain and also reduces inflammation and fever. Largely superseded by modern anti-inflammatory agents (see NSAID), aspirin is now most commonly taken regularly in low doses as an antiplatelet drug. In this role it reduces the risk of vascular thrombosis that may lead to events such as heart attack or stroke. Aspirin works by inhibiting the production of prostaglandins; it may irritate the lining of the stomach, causing nausea, vomiting, pain, and bleeding. High doses cause dizziness, disturbed hearing, mental confusion, and overbreathing (see SALICYLISM). Aspirin has been implicated as a cause of Reye's syndrome and should therefore not be given to children below the age of 16 years unless specifically indicated by a physician. See also ANALGESIC.
## Source[^2]
- (acetylsalicylic acid) A drug that reduces inflammation, combats fever, and alleviates pain. Aspirin works by inhibiting the formation of prostaglandins, which are major factors in the inflammation process. It also reduces the aggregation of blood platelets, hence its use in maintaining blood flow following heart and circulatory disorders.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. Acetylsalicylic acid, a white, crystalline compound originally derived from the bark of the willow tree Salix alba, identified and first synthesized by the German chemist Felix Hoffmann (1868-1946) at the Bayer division of the German chemical company I. G. Farben in 1898, widely used as an analgesic (1). It consists of an acetyl group linked to a salicylic acid group, and its powerful anti-inflammatory and antipyretic (fever-reducing) effects result from its inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis. When it enters the molecule prostaglandin $\mathrm{H}_{2}$ synthase or PGHS, the enzyme that produces prostaglandins, its acetyl group binds to a site within the enzyme and blocks the channel through which arachidonic acid from the endoplasmic reticulum is converted to prostaglandins. It also shuts down forms of the PGHS enzyme that protect the lining of the stomach. Signs and symptoms of aspirin overdose include gastrointestinal bleeding, dizziness, sweating, thirst, tinnitus, visual disturbances, confusion, drowsiness, breathlessness, nausea, vomiting, coma, and death. Formula: $\mathrm{CH}_{3} \mathrm{COOC}_{6} \mathrm{H}_{4} \mathrm{COOH}$. See also ototoxic. \[The original proprietary name given to it by Bayer, from a(cetyl) + German Spir(säure) spiraeic (now salicylic) acid + -in(e) indicating an organic compound]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]