## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A situation where some participants in an economic transaction have access to more, or better, relevant information than other participants. For example, an insurance company may not know whether an individual driver is good or bad, but the individual knows how often they drive when tired or after drinking alcohol. In this case the driver possesses more information relevant for an insurance contract than the insurance company. The demonstration that a competitive equilibrium is Pareto efficient assumes symmetric information. Economic agents need not be fully informed but they must be equally informed (or equally uninformed). For example, a competitive equilibrium is efficient when there is uncertainty about future asset returns provided no agent has superior information. Asymmetric information is a source of market failure. Agents with superior information will attempt to gain advantage from this, and inefficiency will result. See also ADVERSE SELECTION; AGENCY THEORY; MORAL HAZARD; PRINCIPAL-AGENT PROBLEM.
## Source[^2]
- The situation in which one party to an agreement or transaction has superior information to the other. Any serious or systematic imbalance of this kind can compromise the efficiency of markets and lead to market failure. The problem of asymmetric information is often discussed in the context of agency relationships, notably those between managers and shareholders: in most cases managers will have superior information to shareholders regarding the state of the latter's investment. Information asymmetry also occurs in insurance, where the purchaser of an insurance contract is likely to know more about the nature of the risks than the seller of the contract (see ADVERSE SELECTION; UTMOST GOOD FAITH). See also SIGNALLING HYPOTHESIS.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]