---
aliases:
  - attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder
---
## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (ADHD, attention deficit disorder, hyperkinetic disorder) a developmental disorder characterized by grossly excessive levels of activity and a marked impairment of the ability to attend and concentrate. The behaviour may be predominantly hyperactive-impulsive, predominantly inattentive, or combined. It is hypothesized that the majority of patients have a higher than normal number of dopamine transporter complexes, reducing the amount of freely available dopamine in the synaptic cleft. This leads to cognitive problems, including an inability to keep attention, to focus attention, and to perform organizational planning. Learning is impaired as a result, and behavior can be disruptive and may be defiant or aggressive. ADHD is highly genetic. It is estimated to affect up to $5 \%$ of children; the prevalence is lower in adults because the number of dopamine transporter complexes in the brain naturally declines over time. Untreated, many children later develop conduct disorder or personality disorders. Treatment usually involves drugs (such as amphetamines and methylphenidate) and behavior therapy; the family needs advice and practical help.
## Source[^2]
- n. A neurodevelopmental disorder in DSM-5 affecting about 5 per cent of children and 2.5 per cent of adults, more common in boys than girls, characterized by persistent inattention, hyperactivity, or impulsivity, with some signs and symptoms appearing before the age of 12, causing problems at school or work and in the home, and interfering significantly with social, academic, or occupational functioning. Inattention is manifested by drifting off task, losing focus, or lacking persistence; hyperactivity by fidgeting, tapping, running around unnecessarily, and feeling restless when inactive; and impulsivity by hasty decision making without forethought, risky behaviour, social intrusiveness, and pursuit of immediate rather than deferred gratification. The disorder may be manifested as a predominantly inattentive subtype, a predominantly hyperactive-impulsive subtype, or a combined subtype, and it has substantial heritability. It is not a disorder of attention per se, as was formerly believed, but a developmental failure in areas of the brain responsible for inhibition and self-control, especially the caudate nucleus, the globus pallidus, the prefrontal cortex, and the vermis of the cerebellum, areas that use dopamine to communicate with one another and that tend to be shrunken in people with the disorder. Also called attention-deficit disorder (ADD), minimal brain dysfunction (MBD). See also ATOMOXETINE, METHYLPHENIDATE. Compare HYPERKINESIS, HYPERKINETIC DISORDERS, INTERMITTENT EXPLOSIVE DISORDER, OPPOSITIONAL DEFIANT DISORDER. ADHD abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]