## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A sale where the price is fixed by an auctioneer who invites bids, and awards the article being auctioned to the highest bidder. In an English auction the highest bid is publicly announced at each stage, and other parties are given a chance to make higher bids. In a sealed-bid auction the bids are not publicly announced: each bid is submitted sealed, and a time limit is set at which the auctioneer opens the bids and awards the article to the highest bidder, without further bids being invited. In a Dutch auction the auctioneer announces a decreasing series of prices, and the article is awarded to the first bidder. In any of these types of auction there may or may not be a reserve price, which is the lowest bid the seller will accept; this may or may not be published. The auctioneer normally charges the seller and possibly also the buyer a fee calculated as a percentage of the realized price. See also FIRST-PRICE AUCTION; SECOND-PRICE AUCTION.
## Source[^2]
- A method of sale in which goods, securities, rights, etc. are sold in public to the highest bidder. Auctions are used for any property for which there are likely to be a number of competing buyers, such as houses, secondhand and antique furniture, works of art, etc., as well as for certain commodities, such as tea, bristles, wool, furs, etc., which must be sold as individual lots, rather than on the basis of a standard sample or grading procedure. In most auctions the goods to be sold are available for viewing before the sale and it is usual for the seller to put a reserve price on the articles offered, i.e. the articles are withdrawn from sale unless more than a specified price is bid. The auctioneer acts as agent for the seller in most cases and receives a commission on the sale price. He must have the authority of the seller to sell, and must know of no defect in the seller's title to the goods, without promising that a buyer will receive good title for a specific object. An advertisement that an auction will be held does not bind the auctioneer to hold it. It is illegal for a dealer (a person who buys at auction for subsequent resale) to offer a person a reward not to bid at an auction. See also DOUBLE AUCTION; DUTCH AUCTION; VIRTUAL AUCTION.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]