## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. A neurodevelopmental disorder in DSM-5 characterized by gross and sustained impairment of social interaction and communication; restricted and stereotyped patterns of behavior, interests, and activities; symptoms present in early development but possibly not fully manifest until later in social development, language acquisition, or play; clinically significant impairment in social, occupational, or other areas of life; the symptoms not being attributable to intellectual disability or general developmental delay. Symptoms may include emotional non-responsiveness, lack of reciprocity in social interaction, failure to develop peer relations, delay or failure of speech development, stereotyped and idiosyncratic language or non-verbal behaviour (including gaze aversion), insistence on sameness, and ritualized mannerisms. According to DSM-5, the prevalence in the US and other countries is about 1 per cent in both child and adult samples. The disorder was first described in 1943 by the Austrian-born US child psychiatrist Leo Kanner (1894-1981) and in 1944 by the Austrian psychiatrist Hans Asperger (1906-80). Also called autism, autistic disorder, childhood autism, infantile autism, Kanner's syndrome. See also Asperger's disorder, idiot savant, theory of mind. Compare ATTENTION-DEFICIT/HYPERACTIVITY DISORDER, RETT's DISORDER, SCHIZOPHRENIA, SELECTIVE MUTISM. ASD abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]