## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A statement of the money values of the assets and liabilities of a firm or any other organization at some moment, particularly the end of a financial year. Assets can include money, securities, land, buildings and other capital equipment, stocks and work in progress, and amounts due from debtors. Liabilities include secured and unsecured debts. The excess of assets over liabilities is the net worth of the firm; for a solvent firm this is positive, and is treated as a liability of the firm to its shareholders, so that the balance sheet by definition balances. Any firm whose liabilities exceed its assets is insolvent. It should be noted that not all items on a balance sheet are equally reliable. The value of cash held and that of amounts due from debtors are certain, and the value of easily traded securities and commodities is reliably known, though liable to change rapidly; but the value of real assets such as land, buildings, and equipment, and that of securities which are not readily traded, are matters of estimation. A balance sheet, which shows the state of affairs at a moment in time, is contrasted with a profit-and-loss account, which shows flows over some period such as a firm's financial year.
## Source[^2]
- (statement of financial position) A statement of the total assets and liabilities of an organization at a particular date, usually the last day of the accounting period. The first part of the statement lists the fixed and current assets and the liabilities, whereas the second part shows how they have been financed; the totals for each part must be equal. Under the UK Companies Act the balance sheet is one of the primary statements to be included in the annual accounts of a company. The Companies Act requires that the balance sheet of a company must give a true and fair view of its state of affairs at the end of its financial year, and must comply with statute as to its form and content. A balance sheet does not necessarily value a company, as some assets may be given an unrealistic value and important intangible assets may be omitted altogether (see ASSET VALUE (PER SHARE); BOOK VALUE). It can be difficult to compare the balance sheets of companies from different countries as they may disclose different information.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]