## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A financial institution whose main activities are borrowing and lending money. Banks borrow by accepting deposits from the general public or other financial institutions. Bank loans are an important source of finance for firms, consumers, and government. Commercial banks may be all-purpose or specialized. Investment banks specialize on loans to firms; merchant banks on financing capital market transactions and international trade; and savings banks on collecting and lending the savings of numerous, mostly small-scale, savers. Central banks supervise the banking system and control the money supply. In the US the central bank is the Federal Reserve; in France the Banque de France; and in the UK the Bank of England. There are also international banks. The World Bank, or International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is an investment bank at the international level. The nearest international equivalent to a central bank is the International Monetary Fund. The European Central Bank conducts monetary policy in the eurozone. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is a European investment bank, similar to the World Bank at a European level. See also CLEARING BANK; INVESTMENT BANK; JOINT-STOCK BANK; MEMBER BANK; MERCHANT BANK; OVERSEAS BANK.
## Source[^2]
- A commercial institution that takes deposits and extends loans. Banks are concerned mainly with making and receiving payments on behalf of their customers, accepting deposits, and making short-term loans to private individuals, companies, and other organizations. However, they also provide money transmission services and in more recent decades have diversified into many areas of finance, including high-risk speculative activities. Since the financial crisis of 2007-08 there have been widespread calls for the separation of the riskier forms of corporate and investment banking from traditional 'retail banking'. In the UK, the banking system comprises the Bank of England (the central bank), the commercial banks, merchant banks, branches of overseas banks, and the National Savings Bank. The first (1990) building society to become a bank in the UK was the Abbey National (now part of Santander), after its public flotation; many other building societies have now followed this precedent.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]