## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The UK central bank. Originally founded in 1694 as a private bank to lend to the government and manage the national debt, by the 19th century it had developed into a central bank. In 1844 the Bank Charter Act formalized its status. Its main functions were controlling the money supply, through the Issue Department, and acting as a banker for the government and other banks, through the Banking Department. The bank came under formal government ownership when it was nationalized in 1946. The Governor and Directors are now appointed by the government. The Bank of England administered exchange controls until these were abolished in 1979, and advised the government on monetary policy until 1997, when it was made independent. It holds the national foreign exchange reserves, in the Exchange Equalization Account, and manages the national debt. It is also responsible for supervision of the banking system, and acts as lender of last resort in financial crises.
## Source[^2]
- The central bank of the UK. It was established in 1694 as a private bank by London merchants in order to lend money to the state and to deal with the national debt. It came under public ownership in 1946 with the passing of the Bank of England Act. The Bank of England acts as the government's bank, providing loans through ways and means advances and arranging borrowing through the issue of gilt-edged securities. The bank helps to implement the government's financial and monetary policy as directed by the Treasury. Since May 1997 its Monetary Policy Committee has had sole authority for setting the base rate, which was formerly a joint decision of the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Governor of the Bank of England (although the Chancellor retains the right to overrule the Governor in exceptional circumstances). It formerly had wide statutory powers to supervise the banking system, including the commercial banks, but these supervisory powers have now passed to the Financial Services Authority. The bank, however, retains its responsibility for systemic stability and as lender of last resort.
- The Bank Charter Act 1844 divided the bank into an issue department and a banking department. The issue department is responsible for the issue of banknotes and coins as supplied by the Royal Mint. The banking department provides banking services (including accounts) to commercial banks, foreign banks, other central banks, and government departments. The bank manages the national debt, acting as registrar of government stocks. It also manages the exchange equalization account. The bank is controlled by a governor, two deputy governors, and a court (board) of 16 directors.
- http://www.bankofengland.co.uk/Pages/home.aspx
	- Bank of England website
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]