## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Laws, institutions, or practices which make it difficult or impossible for new firms to enter some markets, or new workers to compete for certain forms of employment. Barriers to entry may take various forms. The law may confer monopoly rights on existing firms, or impose qualifications for licences for new operators which are so obstructively administered as to make new entry difficult. Existing firms may have monopoly control over essential inputs, sites, or technical knowhow, protected by patents or commercial secrecy. If the capital required for new plants is very large, this restricts the number of possible entrants. The fear of price wars by existing firms may deter some new firms from trying to enter an industry. In some markets sheer gangsterism is used to discourage entry. Barriers to entry are often higher against foreign firms or individuals than against nationals: the European Union tries to prevent this so far as EU residents are concerned, with varying success. See also STRATEGIC ENTRY DETERRENCE.
## Source[^2]
- Factors that prevent competitors from entering a particular market. These factors may be innocent, e.g. an absolute cost advantage on the part of the firm that dominates the market, or deliberate, such as high spending on advertising to make it very expensive for new firms to enter the market and establish themselves. Other entry barriers may result from a firm's technological advantage, often protected by patents, or from a firm's existing access to end users as a result of its control of the distribution network. Barriers to entry reduce the level of competition in a market, i.e. they make it less contestable, thereby by enabling incumbents to charge higher-than-competitive prices. See also LIMIT PRICE.
- If a particular market for a product is dominated by a large multinational corporation, barriers to entry for smaller firms may be formidable: the multinational may be able to produce the product more cheaply because of economies of scale, the existing product may have built up a strong brand loyalty, the multinational may control the supply of raw material, or own the patent rights to all or part of the production process. See also MOBILITY BARRIERS.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]