## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. an approach to psychology postulating that only observable behavior need be studied, thus denying any importance to unconscious processes. Behaviourists are concerned with the laws regulating the occurrence of behavior (see CONDITIONING). $\textemdash$ behaviorist $n$.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A school of psychology launched in 1913 by the US psychologist John B(roadus) Watson (1878-1958) with the theoretical goal of the 'prediction and control of behavior', representing a radical break with the classical experimental psychology of structuralism (2), which emphasized neither prediction nor control nor behavior. Watson considered the introspective methods of structuralism to be unscientific, he excluded everything except behavior from psychology, and he borrowed the doctrine of operationalism from logical positivism, defining the meaning of psychological concepts as literally the operations through which they are measured. According to behaviorism, virtually all behavior can be explained as the product of learning (1), and all learning consists of conditioning (1). The contemporary work on classical conditioning of the Russian physiologist Ivan Petrovich Pavlov (1849-1936), of which Watson was apparently unaware, added further impetus to the behaviorist movement when it became known in the US. The most influential proponent of neobehaviourism since the 1940s was the US psychologist B(urrhus) F(rederic) Skinner (1904-90), who initiated the study of operant conditioning. As a complete explanation of all forms of behavior, the doctrines of classical and operant conditioning have lost much of their force in the face of mounting attacks from various sources and the decline of positivist dogmas, but neobehaviourism is still influential in the English-speaking world. US behaviorism. See also asSOCIATIONISM, CONNECTIONISM (2). behaviourist or behaviorist adj. n. (Of or relating to) a member or follower of the school of behaviorism or one who advocates or practises behaviorism.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]