## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Government provision of goods and services to those in need of them. This is an alternative to providing citizens with monetary incomes sufficient to meet their needs via the market. Governments wishing to provide for the basic needs of their citizens, including subsistence, housing, education, and medical services, have to choose between these two methods. Providing income is supported by the argument that people vary in their individual tastes and needs, so that any available resources will be more efficiently used in giving cash that can be spent on goods and services. There are, however, various arguments in favour of benefits in kind. In the case of medical and educational services, the tasks of assessing and meeting needs are closely connected. Housing, medical services, and education are often regarded as merit goods: improved housing, health, and education are supposed to benefit society at large as well as the individual recipient. There is the possibility that if those in need of services for themselves, and more particularly for their children, were given money to pay for them, they might prefer to spend some or all of it on different commodities. As an attempt to combine the merits of market provision of services with the advantages of benefits in kind, it has been proposed that, for example, education should be supplied by the state issuing parents with vouchers, which could be spent only at educational institutions, and would not otherwise be tradable.

## Source[^2]
- Benefits other than cash arising from employment. The UK tax legislation seeks to assess all earnings to tax, whether they be in the form of cash or in kind. The treatment of benefits depends on the level of total earnings, including the value of any benefits, and whether the employee is a director of a company. The general rule is to value benefits at their cash equivalent although some specific benefits (e.g. company cars) are subject to specific valuation rules. For employees earning less than $£ 8500$, the benefits are only assessable if they are living accommodation or if they are capable of being turned into cash, such as credit tokens. For all directors or higher-paid employees (i.e. those with total earnings, including benefits, in excess of $£ 8500$ ) the benefits must be reported on form P11D by the employer at the end of the fiscal year. This form will include details of company cars and associated fuel provided by the employer, beneficial loans, mobile telephones or laptop computers, medical insurance provided by the employer, subscriptions paid, and any costs paid on the employee's behalf. These benefits will be assessed to tax. This often takes the form of a restriction to the income tax code. See also FRINGE BENEFITS.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]