## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (beta-adrenergic receptor blocker) a drug that prevents stimulation of the beta adrenoceptors at the nerve endings of the sympathetic nervous system. Blockade of $\beta_{1}$ receptors causes a decrease in heart rate and force; blockade of $\beta_{2}$ receptors causes constriction of the airways and the arteries. Beta blockers include acebutolol, atenolol, bisoprolol, oxprenolol, propranolol, and sotalol; they are used to control abnormal heart rhythms, to treat angina, and to reduce high blood pressure (although they are no longer regarded by some experts as the first choice of drug for treating hypertension in the absence of heart disease, being less effective than newer antihypertensive drugs). Beta blockers that block both $\beta_{1}$ and $\beta_{2}$ receptor sites cause constriction of air passages in the lungs, and these drugs should not be used in patients with asthma and bronchospasm. Other beta blockers are relatively selective for the heart (cardioselective) and are less likely to constrict the airways. Some beta blockers (e.g. carteolol, levobunolol, and timolol) reduce the production of aqueous humor and therefore the pressure inside the eye; they are taken as eye drops in the treatment of glaucoma.
## Source[^2]
- (beta-adrenoceptor antagonist) Any of a group of drugs that bind preferentially to beta adrenoceptors and hence block their stimulation by the body's own neurotransmitters, adrenaline and noradrenaline. Beta blockers, such as propranolol, oxprenolol, and sotalol, are used to treat disorders of the cardiovascular system, including high blood pressure (hypertension), angina pectoris, and irregularities of heartbeat (arrhythmias). They are also effective in treating anxiety and glaucoma (as eye drops) and in preventing migraine. They tend to dampen the effects of exercise or stress on heart rate, heart output, and blood pressure, as well as improving the oxygenation of the heart muscles. The release of the enzyme renin from the kidneys is also reduced, leading to an overall fall in arterial blood pressure.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]