## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. the inability to see. Lack of all light perception constitutes total blindness but there are degrees of visual impairment far less severe than this that may be classed as blindness for administrative or statutory purposes. For example, marked reduction in the visual field is classified as blindness, even if objects are still seen sharply. The commonest causes of blindness worldwide are trachoma, onchocerciasis, and vitamin A deficiency (see NIGHT BLINDNESS) but there is wide geographic variation. In Great Britain the commonest causes are age-related macular degeneration, glaucoma, cataract, myopic retinal degeneration, and diabetic retinopathy.
- https://www.rnib.org/uk
	- Website of the Royal National Institute of Blind People: includes links to a database for researchers
## Source[^2]
- $n$. Inability to see. Total blindness, which is a comparatively rare condition, is unambiguously defined as an inability to perceive light in either eye; partial blindness in which there is some residual vision is comparatively common, affecting approximately 90 per cent of registered blind people in the US and the UK, and is variously defined. The American Foundation for the Blind proposed a twofold criterion: either a Snellen fraction of 20/200 or less in the better eye with maximum correction (spectacles), or tunnel vision limiting the visual field to a visual angle of no more than 20 degrees. Blindness is usually an acquired condition, congenital causes accounting for only about one per cent of registered blind people, the major cause among registered blind people in the US and the UK being diabetes, although blindness in one eye, among people not usually registered blind, is most often caused by amblyopia ex anopsia. Also called visual impairment , especially when there is some residual vision. See also amaurosis, ametropia, anopia, Anton's syndrome, blindsight, Braille, cataract, change blindness, Charles Bonnet SYNDROME, CHROMATOPSIA, COLOR-BLINDNESS, CONVERSION SYMPTOM, CORTICAL BLINDNESS, FACIAL VISION, GLAUCOMA, HEMERALOPIA, HEMIANOPIA, HOMONYMOUS HEMIANOPIA, INATTENTIONAL BLINDNESS, NYCTALOPIA, OBJECT BLINDNESS, OPTACON, OPTOHAPT, RETINITIS PIGMENTOSA, SCOTOMA, SPATIAL NEGLECT, STEREOBLINDNESS, STRABISMUS, TADOMA METHOD, TAY-SAChS DISEASE, THERMOFORm, VISUAL SEARCH. blind adj. \[From Old English blind and Old Norse blindr sightless, cognate with Old Norse blunda to close one's eyes]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]