## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- the pressure of blood against the walls of the main arteries. Pressure is highest during systole, when the ventricles are contracting (systolic pressure), and lowest during diastole, when the ventricles are relaxing and refilling (diastolic pressure). Blood pressure is measured $\textendash$ in millimetres of mercury ( mmHg ) $\textendash$ by means of a sphygmomanometer at the brachial artery of the arm, where the pressure is most similar to that of blood leaving the heart. The normal range varies with age, but a young adult would be expected to have a systolic pressure of around 120 mmHg and a diastolic pressure of 80 mmHg at rest. These are recorded as 120/80 mmHg .
- Individual variations are common. Muscular exertion and emotional factors, such as fear, stress, and excitement, all raise systolic blood pressure (see HYPERTENSION). Systolic blood pressure is normally at its lowest during sleep. Severe shock may lead to an abnormally low blood pressure and possible circulatory failure (see HYPOTENSION). Blood pressure is adjusted to its normal level by the sympathetic nervous system and hormonal controls.
## Source[^2]
- The pressure exerted by the flow of blood through the major arteries of the body. This pressure is greatest during the contraction of the ventricles of the heart (systolic pressure; see SYSTOLE), which forces blood into the arterial system. Pressure falls to its lowest level when the heart is filling with blood (diastolic pressure; see diastole). Blood pressure is measured in millimetres of mercury using an instrument called a sphygmomanometer. Normal blood pressure for a young average adult human is in the region of 120/80?mmHg (the higher number is the systolic blood pressure; the lower number the diastolic blood pressure), but individual variations are common. Abnormally high blood pressure (hypertension) may be associated with disease or it may occur without an apparent cause. Mean arterial pressure (MAP)$\textendash$the mean of systolic and diastolic pressures$\textendash$is determined by cardiac output (CO) and total peripheral resistance (TPR) according to the equation $\mathrm{MAP}=\mathrm{CO} \times \mathrm{TPR}$. It is regulated by various neural and hormonal mechanisms, both local and systemic. CO depends on stroke volume and heart rate, which are governed chiefly by the autonomic nervous system, and hormones such as adrenaline. TPR is determined by the resistance of the arteries and arterioles feeding the capillary beds (see microcirculation). Contraction and relaxation of smooth muscle in the walls of these vessels alters their internal diameter, and hence resistance to blood flow. These changes may occur in response to local requirements for oxygen or delivery/removal of metabolites, or more general changes. For instance, in the alarm response noradrenaline binds to receptors in vessels in the gut and other 'non-essential' tissues, causing vessels to constrict. Another hormone, angiotensin, also causes constriction of arterioles in peripheral tissues and is important in raising blood pressure.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]