## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- the mechanism that controls the passage of molecules from the blood into the cerebrospinal fluid and the tissue spaces surrounding the cells of the brain. The endothelial cells lining the walls of the brain capillaries are more tightly joined together at their edges than those lining capillaries supplying other parts of the body. This allows the passage of solutions and fat-soluble compounds but excludes particles and large molecules. The importance of the blood-brain barrier is that it protects the brain from the effect of many substances harmful to it. A disadvantage, however, is that many useful drugs pass only in small amounts into the brain, and much larger doses may have to be given than normal. Brain cancer, for example, is relatively insensitive to chemotherapy, although drugs such as diazepam, alcohol, and fat-soluble general anaesthetics pass readily and quickly to the brain cells.
## Source[^2]
- The mechanism that controls the passage of substances from the blood to the cerebrospinal fluid bathing the brain and spinal cord. It resides in the special properties of the blood capillaries that supply the central nervous system, the walls of which act like a semipermeable membrane, permitting the passage of solutions but excluding particles and large molecules, including potentially noxious substances. This barrier provides the central nervous system (CNS) with a constant environment, while not interfering with the transport of essential metabolites. But it is also a constraint on the effective delivery of drugs to the CNS. However, any breakdown in the blood-brain barrier, e.g. due to a stroke or trauma, is a major factor in the pathology of such diseases. See also GLIA.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. A protective mechanism that allows blood to flow freely to the brain but prevents most substances in the bloodstream from reaching the brain tissue. It is effected through the unique structure of the capillaries that supply blood to the brain, such capillaries being composed of endothelial cells sealed together in continuous tight junctions to form solid walls not found anywhere else in the body. These capillaries are also almost completely encircled by astrocytes, forming a jigsaw pattern on their outer walls and providing glial sheaths around them. Lipid-soluble substances such as alcohol, nicotine, caffeine, and heroin easily cross the barrier and enter the brain, because the cell membranes and glial sheaths are composed of lipid molecules, whereas water-soluble substances are generally kept out, but certain water-soluble substances such as glucose (in its dextral form only), phenylalanine, and L-dopa are carried across the barrier by specialized active transport processes. See also CIRCUMVENTRICULAR ORGAN. BBB abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]