## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A security with a redemption date over a year later than its date of issue. Bonds may be issued by firms, financial institutions, or governments. They may have a fixed redemption date, have an option for the borrower to repay at any date over a period, or even be perpetuities. They may carry fixed interest, or interest variable with notice, or linked to some financial index. Their interest and redemption payments may be specified in money terms, or index-linked to a suitable price index. Finally, they may vary in the degree of risk attached to them. Government bonds are called 'giltedged', or 'gilts', and are generally regarded as very safe. Well-established firms issue 'investment-grade bonds', which are also regarded as safe, while financially adventurous firms issue junk bonds, where there is recognized to be a non-negligible danger that the borrower may default. When bonds have a long time to maturity, their market price is sensitive to changes in current and expected interest rates, which control the present discounted value of future redemption and interest payments. A rise in interest rates lowers present discounted value; thus even bonds which are extremely safe, in the sense of absence of risk if held to maturity, suffer from variations in their market value as interest rates change. This liability to price fluctuations diminishes as redeemable bonds approach maturity. See also BEARER BOND; GRANNY BOND; PREMIUM BOND; PERPETUAL BOND; RETRACTABLE BOND; STRIPPED BOND; ZERO COUPON BOND.
## Source[^2]
- An IOU issued by a borrower to a lender. Bonds usually take the form of fixed-interest securities issued by governments, local authorities, or companies. However, bonds come in many forms: with fixed or variable rates of interest, redeemable or irredeemable, short- or long-term, secured or unsecured, and marketable or unmarketable. Fixed-interest payments are usually made twice a year but may alternatively be credited at the end of the agreement (typically 5 to 10 years). The borrower repays a specific sum of money plus the face value (par) of the bond. Most bonds are unsecured and do not grant shares in an organization (see DEBENTURE). Bonds are usually sold against loans, mortgages, credit-card income, etc., as marketable securities. A discount bond is one sold below its face value; a premium bond is one sold above par. See also EUROBOND; INCOME BOND; PREMIUM BONDS. Compare NOTE.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]