## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A name used to identify the maker or distributor of a good.A brand was originally a mark burned on the hide of an animal to identify its owner, or on the person of a convicted criminal to warn the public of their character. In some cases a brand name is that of the original maker, which has been retained by a new owner after the originator ceased to be an independent firm. Brand names benefit producers and distributors, as they facilitate advertising and building up a reputation for a product or range of products. Branding may benefit consumers where it is difficult or impossible to discover the quality of a good by inspection before actual purchase. If the maker is easily identified, then a good which fails to give satisfaction in use will not be bought again. Producers and distributors know this, and have a strong incentive to maintain quality, and to make amends if they have failed; this incentive is weaker with unbranded goods where responsibility is hard to trace.
## Source[^2]
- (brand name) A tradename used to identify a specific product, manufacturer, or distributor. The sale of most branded products began in the UK at the turn of the century; some, such as Bovril (Trademark) and Horlicks (Trademark), were mid-Victorian, introduced when manufacturers wanted to distinguish their goods from those of their competitors. As consumers became more sophisticated, manufacturers placed more emphasis upon promoting their brands directly to consumers (rather than to distributors), spending considerable sums on advertising the high quality of their products. Manufacturers believe that if they invest in the quality of their brands they will build up a brand image, to which consumers will respond by asking for their goods by their brand names and by being willing to pay a premium for them (see BRAND LOYALTY). Manufacturers also believe they will be less susceptible to demands from distributors for extra discounts to stock their brands. For some products (e.g. perfumes and alcoholic drinks), considerable effort has been devoted to promoting brands to reflect the personality of their likely purchasers; marketing research has indeed shown that for these products consumers can be persuaded to buy brands that enhance the image they have of themselves. See BRAND VALUE; GENERIC PRODUCT; OWN BRAND.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]