## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A statement of a government's planned receipts and expenditures for some future period, normally a year. This is usually accompanied by a statement of actual receipts and expenditures for the previous period. The annual budget statement in the UK is a statement of the government's financial plans made in Parliament by the Chancellor of the Exchequer. The word budget originally meant the contents of a package; the budget is so called because it brings all the government's tax and spending plans together. A budget surplus means that total government receipts exceed total spending; a budget deficit means that spending exceeds receipts; and a balanced budget means that receipts and spending are equal. All calculations concerning budget surpluses and deficits depend on the definition used. Items which could on some definitions be regarded as part of the budget but are in fact excluded, for example government-guaranteed borrowing by other bodies, are termed off-budget items. See also BALANCED BUDGET; BUDGET CONSTRAINT; UNIFIED BUDGET.
## Source[^2]
- (1) A financial or quantitative statement, prepared prior to a specified accounting period, containing the plans and policies to be pursued during that period. It is used as the basis for budgetary control. Generally a functional budget is drawn up for each functional area within an organization, but in addition it is also usual to produce a capital budget, a cash-flow budget, stock budgets, and a master budget, which includes a budgeted profit and loss account and balance sheet. 
- (2) (the Budget) In the UK, the government's annual budget, which is presented to parliament by the Chancellor of the Exchequer (traditionally, but not always, on a Tuesday in March). It contains estimates for the government's income and expenditure, together with the tax rates and the fiscal policies designed to meet the government's financial goals for the succeeding fiscal year.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]