## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A stock of a commodity held for the purpose of stabilizing its price. If price is liable to fluctuate, because of variations in supply, demand, or both, a buffer stock operator can limit price rises by selling stocks and can limit price falls by buying stocks. This can be done either at the discretion of the manager of the buffer stock, or in accordance with a preannounced maximum selling price and minimum buying price. The price can only be kept within these limits if the prices set are consistent with long-run market conditions. If the minimum price is too high, stocks will tend to accumulate indefinitely, until the buffer stock runs out of funds; if the maximum price is set too low, stocks will run out during periods of high price. Successful stabilization requires that a buffer stock is provided with sufficient funds to be able to hold enough stocks to deal with periods of high demand, and not run out of funds during low price periods. With a selling price above the buying price, a buffer stock is bound to make a trading profit, but it has to meet storage, interest, and administrative costs. Whether it can break even after meeting these costs depends on having a sufficient margin between its buying and selling prices, and on judging correctly which market price changes represent short-run fluctuations to be stabilized, and which reflect changes in long-run market conditions, to which it must in time adapt.
## Source[^2]
- A stock of a commodity owned by a government or trade organization and used to stabilize the price of the commodity. Usually the manager of the buffer stock is authorized to buy the commodity in question if its price falls below a certain level, which is itself reviewed periodically, to enable producers to find a ready market for their goods at a profitable level. If the price rises above another fixed level, the buffer stock manager is authorized to sell the commodity on the open market. Thus, producers are encouraged to keep up a steady supply of the commodity and users are reassured that its price has a ceiling. This arrangement is often effective, but may collapse during a boom or slump. See also United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]