## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. a recreational drug prepared from the Indian hemp plant (Cannabis sativa), also known as pot, marijuana, hashish, and bhang. Smoked or swallowed, it produces euphoria and affects perception and awareness, particularly of time; high doses may cause hallucinations. In the UK cannabis is currently classified as a class B drug under the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971 (as amended). The medical use of cannabis products for those with 'exceptional clinical need' was legalized in 2018; this has so far been taken to include people with epilepsy and those suffering particularly severe effects from chemotherapy. A particular extract of cannabis containing its principal psychoactive ingredient, tetrahydrocannabinol, had already (2010) been licensed for treating spasticity in patients with multiple sclerosis. See Appendix 12 for a list of street names for illicit drugs.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. The psychotropic drug delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and related substances called cannabinoids that are found in the leaves, flowering tops, and young stems of the female common hemp plant Cannabis sativa, and whose biochemical action remains largely unknown. The earliest record of its use as a drug is found in a compendium of medicines of the Chinese Emperor Shen Nung dated 2737 BC, and it is now a popular street drug, inducing euphoria, relaxation of inhibitions, and intensification of perceptions, with potential medicinal benefits, alleviating painful muscular spasms in people with multiple sclerosis, reducing the nausea and vomiting accompanying chemotherapy for cancer, and reducing intra-ocular pressure in people with glaucoma. The cut and dried leaves, tops, and stems of the plant, rolled into cigarettes and smoked, are generally called marijuana ; the dried resinous exudate of the flowering tops of the female hemp plant and the undersides of its leaves, when smoked with tobacco or added to foods and eaten, is called hashish ; and the drink made from an infusion of cannabis is called bhang. The common street names of cannabis include dope, ganja, grass, joint, pot, reefer, spliff, and weed (see separate entries for specific meanings). See also anandamide, CANNABISRELATED DISORDERS, ENDOCANNABINOID, SKUNK, SUBSTANCE ABUSE, SUBSTANCERELATED AND ADDICTIVE DISORDERS. \[From Latin Cannabis the biological name of the common hemp genus, perhaps from an expression used in ancient Mesopotamia kah nah bah cane with two, denoting a cane-like plant with male and female forms]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]