---
aliases:
  - CAPM
---
## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) A model of equilibrium in financial markets that generates very precise predictions about the structure of returns on risky assets. The CAPM assumes the infinite divisibility of assets, no transaction costs, and no taxes. It also assumes that all investors have a one-period investment horizon, hold the same expectations about asset returns, have mean-variance preferences, and are able to borrow and lend at a risk-free rate of interest. Under these assumptions the equilibrium of the financial market is described by the Capital Market Line (CML) and the Security Market Line (SML). For every efficient portfolio, $p$, the CML states that$$\bar{r}_{p}=r_{f}+\left[\frac{\bar{r}_{M}-r_{f}}{\sigma_{M}}\right]$$where $r_{f}$ is the risk-free interest rate, $r_{p}$ is the expected return on the portfolio, $r_{M}$ is the expected return on the market portfolio, and $\sigma_{M}$ the standard deviation of the return on the market portfolio. The SML applies to individual assets and requires that, in equilibrium, the expected return on asset $i$ satisfies$$\bar{r}_{i}=r_{f}+\beta_{i}\left[\bar{r}_{M}-r_{f}\right]$$The beta coefficient of asset $i, \beta_{i}$, is interpreted as a measure of the riskiness of the asset and is defined by $\beta_{i}=\frac{\sigma_{i M}}{\sigma_{M}^{2}}$, where $\sigma_{i M}$ is the covariance of the return on asset $i$ and the return on the market portfolio. The CAPM has the implication that investors should divide their funds between the risk-free asset and the market portfolio. No other risky portfolio should be held. See also ARBITRAGE PRICING THEORY.
## Source[^2]
- (CAPM) A statistical model to explain the expected or average return on an investment. It assumes that this return will be composed of the risk-free rate of return and a risk premium. The risk premium is related to those systematic risks that cannot be avoided by diversification. Formally, the CAPM is based on the equation:$$\mathrm{E}\left(\mathrm{R}_{i}\right)=\mathrm{R}_{f}+\beta_{i}\left[\mathrm{E}\left(\mathrm{R}_{m}\right)-\mathrm{R}_{f}\right]$$where $\mathrm{E}\left(\mathrm{R}_{i}\right)$ is the expected/average return on the assets in portfolio $i, \mathrm{R}_{f}$ is the risk-free rate of return, $\mathrm{E}\left(\mathrm{R}_{m}\right)$ is the expected/average return on all assets, and $\beta_{i}$ is the beta coefficient of the asset or the portfolio $i$. The beta is the percentage that the return in $i$ will change with a $1 \%$ change in $\mathrm{R}_{m}$. The CAPM is a measure of the risk in the asset or the portfolio. It is the basis for calculating the required return on an investment and is frequently used to calculate the discount rate for a net present value calculation.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]