## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A formal or informal agreement among a number of firms in an industry to restrict competition. Cartel agreements may provide for setting minimum prices, setting limits on output or capacity, restrictions on non-price competition, division of markets between firms either geographically or in terms of type of product, or agreed measures to restrict entry to the industry. Cartels suffer from problems of enforcement, which make them liable to break down. So long as the other members of a cartel comply with the terms of a cartel agreement, it is usually beneficial for any one member to cheat, for example by giving secret price discounts or covertly exceeding quota limits on output. Enforcement of cartel agreements is made more difficult if governments regard cartels as undesirable, and make the existence of the cartels or the policies they follow either illegal, or lawful but not legally enforceable. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is the most famous and the longest-surviving cartel of recent times. See also INTERNATIONAL CARTEL; TACIT COLLUSION.
## Source[^2]
- An association of independent companies formed to regulate the price and sales conditions of the products or services they offer. A cartel may be national or international, although some countries, including the UK and the USA, have legislation forbidding cartels to be formed on the grounds that they are monopolies that function against the public interest. The International Air Transport Association is an example of an international price-fixing cartel that is regarded as acceptable because of fears that pricecutting of fares between airlines would jeopardize safety.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]