## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. A principle of morality first formulated in 1785 by the German idealist philosopher Immanuel Kant (1724-1804) in Grundlegung zur Metaphysik der Sitten (Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals). His first formulation, most often quoted is: 'Act only on such a maxim that you can at the same time will to become a universal law' (Immanuel Kants Werke, Volume IV, p. 52). According to Kant, a maxim is a personal rule of conduct, and it is a hypothetical imperative if it takes the form 'If you want $X$, then do $Y'$, assuming that $Y$ is the only or the best means of obtaining $X$ and the reason for doing $Y$ is actually contingent on your desire for $X$. A maxim is a categorical imperative if it takes the form 'Always do $Y'$, where the reason for doing $Y$ is not contingent on any desire in the sense of being your means of obtaining some end that you desire. A categorical imperative is intended not only to be rational, but also to serve as a fundamental principle of morality. Only certain maxims can be categorical imperatives. Kant's clearest example of one that cannot is: 'Always borrow money when in need and promise to pay it back without any intention of keeping the promise' (p. 54). One cannot rationally will this maxim to be a universal law, because it cannot be universalized without generating a contradiction. If everybody habitually broke promises, then there could be no promises; nobody would believe them, because a promise needs a promisee as well as a promiser, and there would be no promisees.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]