## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- the intricately folded outer layer of the cerebrum, making up some $40 \%$ of the brain by weight and composed of an estimated 15 thousand million neurons (see GREY MATTER). This is the part of the brain most directly responsible for consciousness, with essential roles in perception, memory, thought, mental ability, and intellect, and it is responsible for initiating voluntary activity. It has connections, direct or indirect, with all parts of the body. The folding of the cortex provides a large surface area, the greater part lying in the clefts (sulci), which divide the upraised convolutions (gyri). On the basis of its microscopic appearance in section, the cortex is mapped into Brodmann areas; it is also divided into functional regions; including motor cortex, sensory cortex, and association areas. Within, and continuous with it, lies the white matter, through which connection is made with the rest of the nervous system.
## Source[^2]
- (pallium) The layer of grey matter that forms the outer layer of the hemispheres of the cerebrum in many vertebrates. It is most highly developed in mammals (see neOCORTEX). The cortex is responsible for the control and integration of voluntary movement and the senses of vision, hearing, touch, etc.; it also contains centres concerned with memory, language, thought, and intellect. See CEREBRUM.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. The outer layer of grey matter covering the cerebrum, largely responsible for sensory, motor, emotional, and integrative functions, divided into two cerebral hemispheres each subdivided into the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe, and occipital lobe. It varies in thickness from 2 millimetres to 4 millimetres, covers a surface area of approximately 1.4 square metres (roughly equivalent to 15 square feet, the upper surface area of a large umbrella), mostly hidden within the walls of the sulci, and it contains approximately 50 billion neurons and 500 billion neuroglial cells. See also allocortex, angular Gyrus, ARCHAECORTEX, ASSOCIATION AREA, AUDITORY CORTEX, BROCA's AREA, Brodmann area, Caudate nucleus, cingulate gyrus, fasciculus, Heschl's GYRUS, LONGITUDINAL FISSURE, MESOCORTEX, MOTOR CORTEX, NEOCORTEX, NIGROSTRIATAL BUNDLE, OLFACTORY CORTEX, PALAEOCORTEX, PARAHIPPOCAMPAL GYRUS, PIRIFORM CORTEX, PLANUM TEMPORALE, POSTCENTRAL GYRUS, PRECENTRAL GYRUS, RHINENCEPHALON, SOMATOSENSORY CORTEX, STRIATUM, SULCUS, SUPERIOR TEMPORAL GYRUS, TELENCEPHALON, VISUAL CORTEX, WERNICKE'S AREA. \[From Latin cerebrum a brain + cortex bark]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]