## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. a fatlike material (a sterol) present in the blood and most tissues, especially nervous tissue. Cholesterol and its esters are important constituents of cell membranes and are precursors of many steroid hormones and bile salts. Western dietary intake is approximately 500-1000 $\mathrm{mg} /$ day. Cholesterol is synthesized in the body from acetate, mainly in the liver, and blood concentration is normally $140-300 \mathrm{mg} / 100 \mathrm{ml}(3.6-7.8$ $\mathrm{mmol} / \mathrm{l})$. An elevated concentration of cholesterol in the blood (see HYPERCHOLESTEROLAEMIA) is often associated with atheroma, of which cholesterol is a major component. Hypercholesterolaemia and the resulting atheroma have been linked with a high dietary intake of saturated fats and cholesterol. However, current thinking suggests that the damage to blood vessels is caused by high levels (over $4.4 \mathrm{mmol} / \mathrm{l}$ ) of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), one of the forms in which cholesterol and other lipids are transported in the bloodstream. See also HYPERLIPIDAEMIA; LIPOPROTEIN.
## Source[^2]
- A sterol (see also STEROID) occurring widely in animal tissues and also in some plants and algae. It can exist as a free sterol or esterified with a long-chain fatty acid. Cholesterol is absorbed through the intestine or manufactured in the liver. It serves principally as a constituent of blood plasma lipoproteins and of the lipid-protein complexes that form plasma membranes. It is also important as a precursor of various steroids, especially the bile acids, sex hormones, and adrenocorticoid hormones. The derivative 7-dehydrocholesterol is converted to vitamin $\mathrm{D}_{3}$ by the action of sunlight on skin. Cholesterol is transported in the bloodstream chiefly as lipoproteins: low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) deliver cholesterol to cells, while high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) retrieve excess cholesterol and return it to the liver. A high ratio of LDLs to HDLs increases the risk of atherosclerosis and consequent heart attack or stroke.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]