## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. an alkaloid that is derived from the leaves of the coca plant (Erythroxylon coca) or prepared synthetically and was formerly used as a local anaesthetic in ear, nose, and throat surgery. Since it causes feelings of exhilaration and may lead to psychological dependence, cocaine has been replaced by safer anaesthetics.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A highly addictive sympathomimetic alkaloid substance obtained from the Andean coca shrubs Erythroxylon coca and E. truxillense, consumed as a drug in various forms, including coca leaves, which are chewed by native populations in parts of Central and South America, coca paste (basulca), which may be smoked, and cocaine hydrochloride, which is either snorted through the nostrils in powder form or dissolved in water and injected intravenously. It is the prototypic local anaesthetic drug, though no longer used for that purpose owing to the risk of its being abused if readily available in medicine cabinets. It also blocks the amine reuptake mechanism of noradrenergic and dopaminergic neurons, thereby causing noradrenalin (norepinephrine) and dopamine to accumulate at synapses (1) in the central nervous system, resulting in mood elevation, and it acts as a central nervous system stimulant by increasing the release of catecholamines, high doses producing visual, auditory, and sometimes tactile hallucinations, together with paranoia and disruption of thought processes. Until 1904 it was one of the ingredients of Coca Cola. Its street names include Charlie, coke, and snow. Formula $\mathrm{C}_{17} \mathrm{H}_{21} \mathrm{NO}_{4}$. See also ADDICTION, COCAINE-RELATED DISORDERS, CRACK, DEPENDENCE (2), SPEEDBALL, SUBSTANCE DEPENDENCE, SUBSTANCE-INDUCED DISORDERS, SUBSTANCE-RELATED AND ADDICTIVE DISORDERS, SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS. Compare AMPHETAMINE, TRICYCLIC ANTIDEPRESSANT. \[From coca + -ine indicating resemblance, from Latin -inus resembling or consisting of]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]