## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A state of mental conflict caused by a difference between a consumer's expectations of a product and its actual performance. As expectations are largely formed by advertising, dissonance may be reduced by making only realistic and consistent claims about a product's performance. Cognitive dissonance can increase if the buyer feels anxious about the decision, particularly if new information has been received about the product or service. The more negative the new information, the greater the dissonance.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A deceptively simple cognitive consistency theory, first proposed in 1957 by the US psychologist Leon Festinger (1919-89), concerned with the effects of inconsistent cognitions$\textemdash$interpreted as items of knowledge or belief. If one of a pair of cognitions follows from the other, then the two are consonant; if one follows from the converse of the other, then they are dissonant; and if neither follows from the other or from its converse, then they are irrelevant to each other. The 'follows from' criterion is psychological rather than logical, consonance being said to exist if an outside observer would consider it more likely that a person who held one of the cognitions would also hold the other, rather than its converse. The dissonance relation is a motivating state of tension that tends to generate three kinds of dissonance-reducing behavior: changing one of the cognitions, decreasing the perceived importance of dissonant cognitions, and/or adding further (justifying) cognitions. The standard example of a dissonance relation is the pair of cognitions I smoke cigarettes and Cigarette smoking damages my health. People who hold both cognitions can reduce the dissonance in three ways: changing the first cognition by giving up smoking or convincing themselves that they have given up, but this is difficult because this cognition is behaviorally anchored; changing the second cognition by rejecting, ignoring, or playing down the evidence linking cigarette smoking to ill health, but it is difficult in this case because of the overwhelming evidence; or adding justifying cognitions such as But I smoke only low-tar brands, But I'm more likely to die in a car accident than from the effects of smoking, and so on, which is the easiest and commonest method of dissonance reduction. The theory generates counter-intuitive predictions relating to the effects of free choices, resisting temptations, and telling lies. Also called dissonance theory . See also ENDOWMENT EFFECT, EQUITY THEORY, FORCED COMPLIANCE, REACTANCE, SELF-PERCEPTION THEORY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]