## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- a form of psychotherapy based on the belief that psychological problems are the products of faulty ways of thinking about the world. For example, a depressed patient may use wrongly negative automatic associations in everyday situations. The therapist assists the patient to identify these false ways of thinking and to avoid them. In cognitive behavioral therapy this is combined with an analysis and retraining of unhelpful behaviors. In cognitive analytical therapy (CAT) there is an element of psychodynamic exploration of the patient's problems; CAT is mostly used to treat personality disorders.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A form of psychotherapy aimed at modifying people's beliefs, expectancies, assumptions, and styles of thinking, based on the assumption that psychological problems often stem from erroneous patterns of thinking and distorted perceptions of reality (such as overgeneralizations of the type, People are always letting me down) that can be identified and corrected. It has been applied especially to the treatment of depression. The first widely used form of cognitive therapy, not labelled as such, was rational emotive therapy (RET), and the most influential proponent of a later and more complex form of cognitive therapy was the US psychiatrist Aaron (Temkin) Beck (born 1921). Beck was the first to suggest in his book Depression: Clinical, Experimental, and Theoretical Aspects (1967) that depression-prone people tend to have negative self-schemas revolving around assumptions of inadequacy, failure, loss, and worthlessness; Beck assumed that these beliefs are unrealistic and biased, but research into depressive realism suggests the opposite. See also COGNITIVE BEHAVIOR MODIFICATION, COGNITIVE RESTRUCTURING, DEPRESSIVE REALISM, MINDFULNESS-BASED COGNITIVE THERAPY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]