## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- As originally defined by Thomas Graham (1805-69) in 1861, substances, such as starch or gelatin, which will not diffuse through a membrane. Graham distinguished colloids from crystalloids (e.g. inorganic salts), which would pass through membranes. Later it was recognized that colloids were distinguished from true solutions by the presence of particles that were too small to be observed with a normal microscope yet were much larger than normal molecules. Colloids are now regarded as systems in which there are two or more phases, with one (the dispersed phase) distributed in the other (the continuous phase). Moreover, at least one of the phases has small dimensions (in the range $10^{-9}-10^{-6} \mathrm{~m}$ ). Colloids are classified in various ways.
- Sols are dispersions of small solid particles in a liquid. The particles may be macromolecules or clusters of small molecules. Lyophobic sols are those in which there is no affinity between the dispersed phase and the liquid. An example is silver chloride dispersed in water. In such colloids the solid particles have a surface charge, which tends to stop them coming together. Lyophobic sols are inherently unstable and in time the particles aggregate and form a precipitate (see flocculation). Lyophilic sols, on the other hand, are more like true solutions in which the solute molecules are large and have an affinity for the solvent. Starch in water is an example of such a system. Association colloids are systems in which the dispersed phase consists of clusters of molecules that have lyophobic and lyophilic parts. Soap in water is an association colloid (see MICELLE).
- Emulsions are colloidal systems in which the dispersed and continuous phases are both liquids, e.g. oil-in-water or water-in-oil. Such systems require an emulsifying agent to stabilize the dispersed particles.
- Gels are colloids in which both dispersed and continuous phases have a three-dimensional network throughout the material, so that it forms a jelly-like mass. Gelatin is a common example. One component may sometimes be removed (e.g. by heating) to leave a rigid gel (e.g. silica gel).
- Other types of colloid include aerosols (dispersions of liquid or solid particles in a gas, as in a mist or smoke) and foams (dispersions of gases in liquids or solids).
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]