## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A commodity market is a market that trades in the primary economic sector rather than manufactured products

## Source[^2]
- A place or institution through which commodities are traded. Markets were originally places or buildings, where traders could come together, which facilitated comparisons of price and quality. Non-standardized commodities such as fish and fresh vegetables, which need to be physically inspected, are often still traded in such markets; in other cases names such as the 'Corn Exchange' commemorate former physical centers which have been replaced by systems of traders linked by telephones and computers. Commodity markets include both spot markets, where goods are traded for immediate delivery, and forward and futures markets, where prices are agreed in advance for delivery at various dates in the future. Such trading is facilitated by market conventions on the specification and quality of the goods traded, and systems for adjudicating disputes. These are clearly essential for spot trades where the buyers do not physically inspect what they are getting, and even more so for forward and futures trading, where it is impossible to inspect crops which have not yet been grown or minerals which have not yet been mined.
## Source[^3]
- A market in which commodities are traded. Historically, the main terminal markets in commodities were in London, New York, and Chicago, but in some commodities there were also markets in the country of origin. There are now major commodity markets in India, China, and Kenya. Some commodities are dealt with at auctions (e.g. tea), each lot being sold having been examined by dealers, but most dealers deal with goods that have been classified according to established quality standards (see CERTIFIED STOCK). In these commodities both actuals and futures (see FUTURES CONTRACT) are traded on commodity exchanges, in which dealers are represented by commodity brokers. Many commodity exchanges offer option dealing in futures, and settlement of differences on futures through a clearing house. As commodity prices fluctuate widely, commodity exchanges provide users and producers with hedging facilities with outside speculators and investors helping to make an active market, although amateurs are advised not to gamble on commodity exchanges.
- The fluctuations in commodity prices have caused considerable problems in developing countries, from which many commodities originate, as they are often important sources of foreign currency, upon which the economic welfare of the country depends. Various measures have been used to restrict price fluctuations but none have been completely successful. See also Intercontinental Exchange; International Petroleum Exchange; liffe; London Metal Exchange; New York Mercantile Exchange.
## References

[^1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commodity_market
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]