## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A device or system that is capable of carrying out a sequence of operations in a distinctly and explicitly defined manner. The operations are frequently numerical computations or data manipulations but also include input/output; the operations within the sequence may depend on particular data values. The definition of the sequence is called the program. A computer can have either a stored program or wired program. A stored program may exist in an alterable (read/write or RAM) memory or in a nonalterable (ROM) memory. Today, the term 'computer' without qualification is a synonym for 'stored-program digital computer.' See also aNALOGUE COMPUTER, DIGITAL COMPUTER, VON Neumann MACHINE.

## Source[^2]
- Usually a digital electronic device that carries out logical and arithmetical calculations according to a very precise set of instructions contained within a program, known as software. It typically comprises a number of different components, though in laptop and handheld computers some of these may be contained within a single unit. These components are known as computer hardware and will include input devices such as keyboard, mouse, microphone for speech recognition software, or tablet and pen; a central processing unit which carries out the actual calculations; memory storage devices such as the working memory, the computer's hard disk drive; output devices such as a monitor and printer; and communication devices which allow computers to connect to one another or to the Internet.
## Source[^3]
- An electronic tool that manipulates information in accordance with a predefined sequence of instructions. Computers have a simple 'brain', called the central processing unit (CPU), that can do arithmetic and take decisions based on the results, and a memory, which stores the instructions and information. Strictly speaking, all other parts of a computer system are peripheral devices, but in practice all computers have at least: an input device, such as a keyboard, by means of which the information is fed in; an output device, such as a screen or printer, which displays the results of their work; and extra memory in the form of backing store (e.g. CDs or USB flash drives). Inside a computer, both information and instructions are represented by binary numbers (see BINARY NOTATION) and all processing is done using these numbers. A computer needs to be given detailed instructions, called a program, before it can perform even the simplest task. The art of composing these instructions is computer programming. The general term for the programs that a computer needs in order to operate is software, while the computer and devices attached to it are called hardware.
- Traditionally, computers have been classified into three types according to size. The largest is the mainframe, used typically for large-scale corporate data processing; and the smallest is the personal computer, designed for a single user. Between these extremes is the minicomputer. These distinctions have become blurred, as minicomputers and personal computers become more powerful. Moreover, mainframe and minicomputers have been replaced in many situations by groups of personal computers linked to form local area networks.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Mathematics 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]