## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A form of organization for a business, with a legal personality distinct from the individuals taking part in it. This has been found essential in organizing large and complex businesses. The formation of companies is controlled by the state. At various times in the UK, companies have been formed by royal charter, act of Parliament, or registration with an official Registrar of Companies. A company is empowered to own assets, incur debts, and enter into contracts, and may be sued and taxed. It may or may not have limited liability for its shareholders: without limited liability shareholders are in the last resort responsible for meeting the company's debts; with it, they are liable only to the extent of any unpaid part of the book value of their shares. Under the UK Companies Acts there are three classes of company: private companies with unlimited liability, private companies with limited liability, and public limited companies (PLCs). Private companies can place restrictions on the transfer of their shares, and cannot offer them to the general public. All UK companies are required to provide financial information to their shareholders, the Registrar of Companies, and HM Revenue and Customs, the obligations of PLCs being the most stringent. Further obligations on disclosure are required to qualify for listing of company shares so that they can be traded on stock exchanges. A company is governed by a board of directors, elected at an annual general meeting of its ordinary shareholders. See also CLOSE COMPANY; HOLDING COMPANY; JOINT-STOCK COMPANY; LIMITED COMPANY; MULTINATIONAL; PRIVATE COMPANY; QUOTED COMPANY; SHELL COMPANY; STATE-OWNED COMPANY.
## Source[^2]
- A corporate enterprise that has a legal identity separate from that of its members; it operates as one single unit, in the success of which all the members participate. An incorporated company is a legal person in its own right, able to own property and to sue and be sued in its own name. A company may have limited liability (a limited company), so that the liability of the members for the company's debts is limited. An unlimited company is one in which the liability of the members is not limited in any way.
- A registered company, i.e. one registered under the Companies Acts, is much the most common type of company. A company may be registered either as a public limited company or a private company. A public limited company must have a name ending with the initials ' plc ' and share capital of at least $£ 50,000$, of which at least $£ 12,500$ must be paid up. A private company is any registered company that is not a public company. The shares of a private company may not be offered to the public for sale. Unregistered companies include joint-stock companies, in which the members pool their stock, chartered companies, formed under Royal Charter, and statutory companies, formed by special Act of Parliament (e.g. the privatized utilities).
- There are legal requirements placed on companies to make certain financial information regarding their activities public. Such information normally comprises a profit and loss account and balance sheet and is included with other financial and non-financial information in an annual report and accounts (see ANNUAL ACCOUNTS). The term company is often used more widely to refer to any association of persons, such as a partnership, joined together for the purpose of conducting a business, although legally there are significant differences. See also ARTIFICIAL PERSON; CORPORATION.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]