## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (1) The situation when anybody who wants to buy or sell has a choice of possible suppliers or customers. See also CUT-THROAT COMPETITION; POTENTIAL COMPETITION; UNFAIR COMPETITION.
- (2) The formal assumption in economic modelling of every agent acting as a price-taker. See also PERFECT COMPETITION.
- (3) The notion of two or more economic agents engaged in strategic interaction and pursuing individual gain. See also BERTRAND COMPETITION; COURNOT COMPETITION; IMPERFECT COMPETITION; MONOPOLISTIC COMPETITION; NON-PRICE COMPETITION.
## Source[^2]
- Rivalry between suppliers providing goods or services for a market. The consensus of most economic theory is that competition is beneficial for the public, largely because it brings prices down. Governments usually pursue policies aimed at increasing competition in markets, although there may sometimes be a conflict between policies that increase competition and those that promote the national interest. See MONOPOLISTIC COMPETITION; PERFECT COMPETITION.
## Source[^3]
- (1) (in ecology) The interaction that occurs between two or more organisms, populations, or species that share some environmental resource when this is in short supply. Competition is an important force in evolution: plants, for example, become tall to compete for light, and animals evolve various foraging methods to compete for food. There may be a direct confrontation between competitors, as occurs between barnacles competing for space on a rock, or the numbers or fecundity of the competitors are indirectly reduced through joint dependence on limited resources. Competition occurs both between members of a species (intraspecific competition) and between different species (interspecific competition). Interspecific competition often results in the dominance of one species over another (see DOMINANT). Since competition ultimately results in the displacement by one competitor of the others, it is to the advantage of the competitors to avoid one another wherever possible. Thus in time the competitors become separated from each other geographically or ecologically, which promotes evolutionary change. Competition for mates may lead to sexual selection. 
- (2) (in neurophysiology) The interaction between multiple nerve endings or synapses during nervous system development that results in the elimination of superfluous connections and establishment of the mature 'wiring' pattern. This pruning mechanism occurs, for example, during the formation of a vertebrate skeletal neuromuscular junction. In the embryo, motor axons branch to innervate several muscle fibres, with individual fibres receiving branches from multiple neurons. However, as development proceeds after birth, this polyneuronal innervation is pruned so that each muscle fibre comes to be innervated by just a single axon branch. Similar processes prune synaptic connections in the central nervous system. One mechanism involves competition between nerve endings for a limited supply of neurotrophin from the target cells, leading to survival of some synapses and degeneration of others. Macrophage cells called glia make and break physical connections between brain cells to help maintain healthy brain function.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]