## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- An estimation rule that produces with a given probability, when applied to repeated samples, intervals containing the true value of the unknown parameter. Thus, if a large number of samples were drawn from the same population, and an $x$-per cent confidence interval were constructed for each of this sample, then about $x$ per cent of these confidence intervals would contain the true value of the estimated parameter.
## Source[^2]
- A range of values about a parameter estimate such that the probability that the true value of the parameter lies within the range is some fixed value, $\alpha$, known as the confidence level. The upper and lower limits of the range are known as confidence limits. Confidence limits are calculated from the theoretical frequency distribution of the estimating function. The concept may be generalized to several parameters. A confidence region at level $\alpha$ contains the true values of the parameters with probability $\alpha$.
## Source[^3]
- (in statistics) a range of values for a parameter of interest that is estimated to contain the true value of the parameter within a given probability. For example, with a $95 \%$ confidence interval the parameter value will lie in this interval 95 times out of every 100.
## Source[^4]
- $n$. In statistics, a range of values bounded by confidence limits within which there is a specified probability that the true value of a population parameter is expected, with a specified level of confidence, to lie. By convention, the 95 and 99 per cent confidence intervals are most often used. For example, in a population of 8,000, a sample of 950 respondents is required to achieve a 95 per cent confidence interval of $\pm 3$ per cent. This means that if a survey found that 25 per cent of a random sample were in favor of capital punishment, then if 100 different random samples of that size were drawn from the population, 95 per cent of them would give results between 22 and 28 per cent. In large populations, over about 5,000 , the necessary sample size for a given confidence interval is surprisingly insensitive to the population size: for a population of 40,000, a sample of 1,050 is required to achieve the same 95 per cent confidence interval of $\pm 3$ per cent, and the required sample size increases only very slowly for larger samples than that, hence opinion polls in the UK (population 64 m), the US (population 317 m), and Ireland (population 4.5 m ) all use sample sizes slightly over 1,000 to achieve 95 per cent confidence intervals of $\pm 3$ per cent, which is the conventional confidence interval for public opinion polls. See also probable ERROR.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^4]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]