## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. agreement to undergo any medical treatment or to participate in medical research. Three criteria must be met for consent to be legally valid, namely that the patient must: (i) have capacity to make a choice; (ii) be provided with sufficient information (see INFORMED CONSENT) as to the nature of treatment, its likely consequences, and the possible effects of not having treatment; (iii) be in a position to decide voluntarily, i.e. without external pressure or influence, which may entail giving the patient time to consider the options. In addition, the patient should be informed that they can change their mind about treatment at any point. Valid consent usually provides a legal defence against the charge of battery (trespass against the person). Claims of negligence may be brought if the doctor discloses insufficient or inadequate information or fails to answer the patient's questions and address his or her concerns. Consent need not be in writing, but the more invasive the treatment proposed the greater the need for evidence of consent to be recorded. Signed consent forms are commonly used for this purpose, and are legally required when recruiting a subject to a clinical trial. Valid consent is not required in an emergency or where a patient lacks capacity. The concept of therapeutic privilege formerly provided a further exception to the requirement that patients should give valid consent, but its scope of application is now much more narrowly defined. See also ASSENT; AUTONOMY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]