## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The general trend in which computers, telecommunications, and the broadcast media have become increasingly interdependent and have assumed similar functions for many business and other purposes. See INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. 
- (1) (in neurology) the formation of nerve tracts by fibers coming together into one pathway from different regions of the brain. 
- (2) (in ophthalmology) the ability of the eyes to turn inwards and focus on a near point so that a single image is formed on both retinas. The closer the object, the greater the degree of convergence.
## Source[^3]
- (1) (in neuroanatomy) The arrangement in which a single neuron receives inputs from numerous receptors or other neurons. For instance, in the retina of the eye, the output of over 100 million photoreceptors converge, via intermediate cells, on just 1 million ganglion cells, whose axons comprise the optic nerve. Consequently, convergence entails a funnelling of information from the input cells and integration of their signals into new output messages.
- (2) See CONVERGENT EVOLUTION. Compare DIVERGENCE.
## Source[^4]
- $n$. Any process of coming together, specifically ocular convergence. Compare Divergence. \[From Latin convergere to bend together, from con- together + vergere to incline]
## Source[^5]
- In a multibeam electron tube, such as a color picture tube, the intersection of the beams at a specified point. Convergence may be achieved electrostatically using a convergence electrode or electromagnetically using a convergence magnet. When scanning of the beams across the screen of the tube is carried out, the surface generated by the point of intersection of two or more of the electron beams is the convergence surface.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^4]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^5]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]