## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (1) A central region in an economy, with good communications and high population density, which are conducive to its prosperity. The core is surrounded by the periphery: outlying regions, usually with poorer communications and sparse population. At the world level, core countries are characterized by higher development and higher accessibility, in terms of transportation and trade, relative to the periphery.
- (2) The set of feasible allocations that cannot be improved upon by a coalition formed by a subset of the consumers in an economy. A coalition can improve upon an allocation if there is some reallocation of the resources within the coalition such that a new allocation is obtained that is at least as good as the old for all coalition members and strictly preferred for some. In an Edgeworth box the core of the economy is the set of Pareto-efficient allocations that are preferred by all consumers to the initial endowment point. The 'core convergence theorem' proves that the core of the economy shrinks to the set of competitive equilibria as the number of consumers in the economy increases. The concept of the core can also be applied to cooperative games.
## Source[^2]
- (1) The ferromagnetic portion of the magnetic circuit of an electromagnetic device. A simple ferrite core is a solid piece of ferromagnetic material suitably shaped into a cylinder, toroid, etc. A laminated core is composed of laminations of ferromagnetic material insulated from each other; eddy currents are thus reduced. A wound core is one constructed from strips of ferromagnetic material wound spirally in layers. 
- (2) (core store) An obsolete type of nonvolatile computer memory that consisted of an array of rings of ferrite material strung on a grid of wires. The individual rings $\textendash$ ferrite cores $\textendash$ were of the order of a millimeter in diameter. Information was stored in the array by causing the direction of magnetization of a core to be either clockwise or anticlockwise, corresponding to the binary digits one or zero. There was random access to the memory locations. Information was input and output by electronic means using the wire grid to read or write.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]