## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A measure of a tendency for two or more random variables to be associated. The formula for $r$, the sample [[correlation coefficient]] between two variables $x$ and $y$, is $$\frac{\sum(x_1-\overline x)(y_i - \overline y)}{\sqrt{|\sum(x_i-\overline x)^2\sum(y_i-\overline y)^2}}$$which varies between -1 and +1. Negative values or $r$ indicate that y tends to decrease as x increases, while positive values indicate that $x$ and $y$ increase or decrease together. If the value of $r$ is zero, then $x$ and $y$ are uncorrelated
- [[Rank correlation]] measures the correlation between the ranks (or order numbers) of the variables, i.e. between the positions when the numbers are arranged in increasing order of magnitude.
- Correlation does not imply causation. Variables may be correlated accidentally, or because of joint association with other unmeasured agencies such as a general upward trend with time. If the relationship is not linear the correlation coefficient may be misleading.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. (in statistics) the degree of linear relationship between two or more variables. Pairs of observations can be plotted as a series of points on a graph. The correlation coefficient measures the extent to which the points on the resulting scatter diagram form a straight line. The correlation coefficient varies within the range of +1 (where an increase of one variable is associated with a corresponding increase in the other, and vice versa) to -1 (where an increase of one variable is associated with a corresponding decrease of the other); a coefficient of 0 indicates no linear relationship between the two variables. The statistical technique known as multivariate analysis can be used to investigate the relationships between several variables.
## Source[^3]
- In statistics, the degree of linear relationship between two or more variables. Pairs of observations can be plotted as a series of points on a graph. The correlation coefficient measures the extent to which the points on the resulting scatter diagram form a straight line. The correlation coefficient varies within the range of +1 (where an increase of one variable is associated with a corresponding increase in the other, and vice versa) to -1 (where an increase of one variable is associated with a corresponding decrease of the other); a coefficient of 0 indicates no linear relationship between the two variables. The statistical technique known as multivariate analysis can be used to investigate the relationships between several variables. See also CONFOUNDING.
## Source[^4]
- $n$. In statistics, the degree of (usually) linear relationship between two variables such that high scores on one tend to go with high scores on the other and low scores on one with low scores on the other (positive correlation), or such that high scores on one tend to go with low scores on the other (negative correlation). The most commonly used index of correlation, the product-moment correlation coefficient, symbolized by $r$, ranges from 1.00 for perfect positive correlation, through zero for uncorrelated variables, to -1.00 for perfect negative correlation. The concept of the correlation coefficient was first suggested by the English explorer, amateur scientist, and psychologist Sir Francis Galton (1822-1911) at a meeting of the Royal Institution in London in 1877. See also autocorrelation, Kendall's tau, partial correlation, Spearman rank CORRELATION COEFFICIENT. correlate $v b$. correlational adj. \[From Latin com together + relatio a relation + -ion indicating an action, process, or state]
## Source[^5]
- The process of comparison of signals to establish how alike they are, or the extent of correspondence so found. When two signals are compared with each other, the process is known as cross correlation, and if a signal is compared with itself it is referred to as autocorrelation. The correlation function is the result of multiplying the signals together for different values of time delay between them. A peak in the correlation function indicates a delay at which the signals have a degree of periodicity, and the delay associated with such a peak gives the time period.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^4]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^5]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]