## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The quantification of the total social costs and benefits of a policy or a project, usually in monetary terms. The costs and benefits concerned include not only direct pecuniary costs and benefits, but also externalities, meaning external effects not traded in markets. These include external costs, for example pollution, noise, and disturbance to wildlife, and external benefits such as reductions in travelling time or traffic accidents. Cost-benefit analysis is often used to compare alternative proposals. If the total social benefits of an activity exceed total social costs this can justify subsidizing projects which are not privately profitable. If the total social costs exceed total social benefits this can justify preventing projects even when these would be privately profitable. See also SHADOW PRICES.
## Source[^2]
- A technique used in capital budgeting that takes into account the estimated costs to be incurred by a proposed investment and the estimated benefits likely to arise from it. In a financial appraisal the benefits may arise from an increase in the revenue from a product or service, from saved costs, or from other cash inflows, but in an economic appraisal the economic benefits, such as the value of time saved or of fewer accidents resulting from a road improvement, often require to be valued.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. A method of assigning a numerical value to the cost-effectiveness of a proposed operation, procedure, or undertaking. It is based on techniques of forecasting that are used to judge the value of each option in relation to its cost, to choose the option or options with the greatest net benefit, and sometimes to determine the optimal scale of the chosen operation(s), for example in terms of the amount to be invested. The basic decision criterion is maximization of the difference between total present benefits and total present costs (maximization of benefits minus costs), not the benefit-cost ratio (benefits divided by costs), contrary to common belief and practice in some agencies, including the US Army Corps of Engineers. Also called benefit-cost analysis or C-B analysis. CBA abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]