## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- An assessment of the probability that an individual, firm, or country will be able and willing to pay its debts. Such an assessment is based on all available information about the subject's total assets and liabilities, exposure to risk, and past record in making prompt payment of interest and principal when due. An individual, firm, or government with a good credit rating can borrow or obtain goods on credit more easily and cheaply than one whose credit rating is poor. See also CREDIT-RATING AGENCY.
## Source[^2]
- An assessment of the creditworthiness of an individual or a firm, i.e. the extent to which they can safely be granted credit. Traditionally, banks have provided confidential trade references (see BANKER'S REFERENCE), but recently credit-reference agencies (also known as rating agencies) have grown up, which gather information from a wide range of sources, including the county courts, bankruptcy proceedings, hire-purchase companies, and professional debt collectors. This information is then provided as a credit reference, for a fee, to interested parties. The consumer was given some protection from such activities in the Consumer Credit Act 1974, which allows an individual to obtain a copy of all the information held by such agencies relating to that individual, as well as the right to correct any discrepancies. There are also agencies that specialize in the corporate sector, giving details of a company's long-term and short-term debt. This can be extremely important to the price of the company's shares on the market, its ability to borrow, and its general standing in the business community. Credit ratings for the debt instruments of large corporations are provided by such organizations as Moody's Investor Service and Standard and Poor's (see BOND CREDIT RATING). See also ANCILLARY CREDIT BUSINESS.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]