## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (CJD) a rapidly progressive rare neurological disease, a form of human spongiform encephalopathy in which dementia progresses to death after a period of 3-12 months. There is no effective treatment. The causative agent is an abnormal prion protein that accumulates in the brain and causes widespread destruction of tissue. CJD typically affects middle-aged to elderly people. Some 15% of cases are due to a form of the disease that is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait but most cases are sporadic, susceptibility being genetically determined. A few cases of CJD are acquired: the agent is known to have been transmitted by tissue and organ transplantation and by human growth hormone injections, but the disease may take years to manifest itself. Variant CreutzfeldtJakob disease (vCJD) is the human form of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), which is most likely acquired by the ingestion of infected beef products. Patients are younger than those affected with sporadic CJD and present with psychiatric symptoms (e.g. depression, anxiety) and hypersensitivity to touch, which are followed after months by myoclonic jerks (see MYOCLONUS) and dementia. \[H. G. Creutzfeldt (1885-1964) and A. M. Jakob (1884-1931), German psychiatrists]
## Source[^2]
- (CJD) A disease of humans characterized by dementia and destruction of brain tissue. It is now known to be caused by an abnormal prion protein and is transmissible, although there is also an inherited familial form. This rare disease typically affects middle-aged and elderly people and leads to rapid mental deterioration and death. The abnormal prion interferes with the structure of normal prion protein in brain tissue, resulting in accumulations of the protein and consequent tissue damage. In most cases the source of infection is unknown. However, it is well established that infection can result, for example, via injections of growth hormone derived from infected human cadavers. During the 1990s a novel form of the disease emerged, called 'variant CJD', which typically affects young healthy individuals. This is thought to be caused by consumption of beef products derived from cattle infected with bovine spongiform encephalopathy or transfusion of blood from infected donors.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]