## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The analysis of rational decision-making. A rational decision-maker chooses between the available alternatives on the basis of their consequences. If there is certainty each alternative has a known consequence that can be evaluated in terms of the decision-maker's objectives. In most circumstances the objectives can be summarized in a utility function. Decision theory then describes the conditions under which an optimal choice exists, and provides a characterization of the optimal choice. When there is risk, each alternative generates a probability distribution over possible consequences and the decision-maker has to choose between probability distributions. The choice is made using the decision-maker's expected utility function. If the probability distribution is unknown then the choice is made under conditions of uncertainty. The decision-maker has to utilize subjective probabilities to assess the consequences of alternatives. The discovery of anomalies in empirical and experimental investigations of choice situations has brought into question some of the underlying assumptions of decision theory. See also Allais PARADOX.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A normative (1) approach to decision making based on expected utility theory, some versions also incorporating Bayesian inference. It starts from the assumption that, for any pair of alternatives, the decision maker can express a preference, and that the preferences satisfy the following axioms, which accord with our intuitions about preferences. (1) Completeness: for every pair of alternatives $x$ and $y$, either $x$ is preferred to $y, y$ is preferred to $x$, or the decision maker is indifferent between $x$ and $y$; (2) Reflexivity: every alternative $x$ is at least as preferable as itself; (3) Transitivity: if $x$ is at least as preferable as $y$, and $y$ is at least as preferable as $z$, then $x$ is at least as preferable as $z$. The theory then requires a decision maker always to choose a maximally preferable alternative (which may not be unique). Many writers use the term synonymously with rational choice theory. Applied decision theory, taking into account the decision makers' utility functions, is called decision analysis. See also expected utility THEORY, INTRANSITIVE PREFERENCES, MONEY PUMP. Compare BEHAVIORAL DECISION THEORY, PSYCHOLOGICAL DECISION THEORY. DT abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]