## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- the means whereby an undesirable impulse or emotion can be avoided or controlled. Defence mechanisms are regarded as normal forms of self-protection; however, used excessively, they can become pathological. Many defence mechanisms have been described, including repression, projection, reaction formation, sublimation, and splitting.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A term used originally in psychoanalysis and later more widely in psychology and psychiatry to refer to a process whereby the ego protects itself against demands of the id. More generally, it is a pattern of feeling, thought, or behavior behavior in response to a perception of psychic danger, enabling a person to avoid conscious awareness of conflicts or anxiety-arousing ideas or wishes. In his book The Ego and the Id (1923), Sigmund Freud (1856-1939) made it clear that it is an unconscious function of the ego: 'We have come upon something in the ego itself which is also unconscious, which behaves exactly like the repressed$\textemdash$that is, which produces powerful effects without itself being conscious and which requires special work before it can be made conscious' (Standard Edition, XIX, pp. 12-66, at p. 17). The most influential survey and discussion of defence mechanisms was provided by Freud's daughter, the Austrian-born British psychoanalyst Anna Freud (1895-1982), in her book The Ego and the Mechanisms of Defence (1936/7). US defense mechanism. Also called an ego defence mechanism . See acting out (2), COMPENSATION, CONVERSION, DENIAL, DISPLACEMENT, DISSOCIATION, EXTERNALIZATION, FORECLOSURE, IDEALIZATION, IDENTIFICATION (2), IDENTIFICATION WITH THE AGGRESSOR, INCORPORATION, INTELLECTUALIZATION, INTROJECTION, ISOLATION OF AFFECT, NEGATION (2), PROJECTION (1), RATIONALIZATION, REACTION FORMATION, REGRESSION (2), REPRESSION, REVERSAL (1), SPLITTING OF THE OBJECT, SUBLIMATION, SUBSTITUTION, SUPPRESSION, SYMBOLIZATION, UNDOING. See also CATHEXIS, COUNTERCATHEXIS, DEFENCE HYSTERIA, WORD-ASSOCIATION TEST.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]