## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The minimal number of independent characteristics, or variables, required to specify completely the state of the system at a given moment. If there exists a constraint or a set of constraints on these variables, in other words, relationships among the variables, each such constraint reduces the number of degrees of freedom. Thus, the number of degrees of freedom equals the number of variables that completely specify the system less the number of constraints imposed on these variables. For example, the number of degrees of freedom for the least squares residuals from a linear regression model with $K$ parameters estimated from a sample of $N$ observations equals $(N-K)$, since in minimizing the sum of squared residuals $K$ first-order conditions are imposed on $N$ data points.
## Source[^2]
- In statistical analysis, the number of independent observations associated with an estimate of variance (see MEASURES OF VARIATION) or of a component of an analysis of variance. The simplest example is in estimating the variance of a sample of $n$ observations, where the degrees of freedom is $n-1$, the divisor of the sum of squared deviations from the sample mean. More generally, the degrees of freedom, $f$, is the difference between the number of parameters in a given model, and a special case of that model with fewer parameters. The number of degrees of freedom is required when selecting a particular instance of the chi-squared distribution, Student's t distribution, or F distribution.
## Source[^3]
- In data samples, degrees of freedom are the maximum number of logically independent values that have the freedom to vary. The degrees of freedom are calculated by subtracting one from the number of items provided in the data sample. Calculating the degrees of freedom when making business decisions is important since it determines the lack of constraint in a data set. For example, say a business is trying to decide how much output a company wants to produce and the number of employees they need to do so, these are two variables that are intertwined. Freely deciding one, determines the fate of the other.
## Source[^4]
- $n$. In statistics, a quantity associated with many significance tests and with estimates of variability such as the sample variance, defined as the number of observations minus the number of restrictions on the freedom of the observations to vary. For example, in estimating the variance in a sample of $n$ scores with a known mean, there are $n-1$ degrees of freedom, because having calculated $n-1$ deviations from the mean, the last deviation is not free to vary but can assume only one value. Similarly, in a $2 \times 2$ contingency table with fixed row and column totals (marginals), there is only 1 degree of freedom, because if a value is assigned to any of the four cells, then the other three are determined by the constraints and have no freedom to vary. df abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) Glossary by Capterra]]
[^4]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]