## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. a chronic and progressive deterioration of behavior and higher intellectual function due to organic brain disease. It is marked by memory disorders, changes in personality, deterioration in personal care, impaired reasoning ability, and disorientation. Dementia is usually a condition of old age, but it can occur in young or middle-aged people. The most common causes are Alzheimer's disease, vascular dementia resulting from the destruction of brain tissue by a series of small strokes, and dementia due to diffuse cortical Lewy body disease (see also FRONTOTEMPORAL DEMENTIA). Also common is mixed dementia, which combines aspects of vascular damage and Alzheimer's disease. It is important to distinguish these organic conditions from psychological disorders that can cause similar symptoms such as depression (see PSEUDODEMENTIA).
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A neurocognitive disorder in DSM-5 involving impairment or loss of memory, especially evident in the learning of new information, and of thinking, language, judgement, and other cognitive faculties, without clouding of consciousness; any of a family of mental disorders characterized by memory impairment, especially for newly acquired information, and one or more cognitive disturbances (notably aphasia, apraxia, or agnosia) causing significant difficulties in social or occupational functioning. It is characteristic of old age, occurring in about 10 per cent of people in their early 80s and rising to 20 per cent of those in their late 80s. The most important types are dementia of the Alzheimer type (see Alzheimer's disease), vascular dementia or multi-infarct dementia, dementia resulting from HIV infection, head trauma, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Pick's disease, Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, and substance-induced persisting dementia resulting from alcohol, inhalants, sedatives, hypnotics, or anxiolytics. See also CHildHOOD DISINTEGRATIVE DISORDER, COGNITIVE DISORDERS, PRESENILE DEMENTIA, PROGRESSIVE SUPRANUCLEAR PALSY, SENILE DEMENTIA. Compare AMENTIA. \[From Latin dementare to drive mad, from de from + mens mind + -ia indicating a condition or quality]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]