## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The complex series of changes that occurs in multicellular living organisms as they progress from the initial fertilized egg via an embryo stage to the mature individual. Fundamentally important processes in development include: cell division; the determination of cell fate; differentiation to form the distinct types of cells; morphogenesis, whereby cells are arranged as tissues and organs; and growth, whether by increase in cell number or size. In vertebrate animals there are three developmental stages: (1) cleavage, in which the zygote divides to form a ball of cells, the blastula; (2) gastrulation, in which the cells become arranged in three primary germ layers (see gastrula); (3) organogenesis (or organogeny), in which further cell division and differentiation results in the formation of organs. The development of many invertebrates (e.g. insects) and amphibians involves the process of metamorphosis. In all organisms, development is directed by the coordinated expression of various genes in time and space, regulated by the complex interplay of the gene products (see MORPHOGEN). Early development may be influenced by maternal genes (see MATERNAL EFFECT GENES) or cytoplasmic segregation of cell fate determinants, as well as embryonic genes. Genes involved in development are often highly conserved across very diverse organisms, as exemplified by the Hox genes that determine the structures along the head-to-tail axis of most animals. Many organisms can modify their development in response to environmental cues. Such developmental plasticity enables them to adapt to variations in environmental conditions, such as changes in food supply or climate. For example, in some turtles the incubation temperature determines the sex and other traits of the hatchlings, such as adult body size, a mechanism that maximizes reproductive fitness. See also ABC MODEL; HOMEOTIC GENES; MORPHOGENESIS; PRIMARY GROWTH; SECONDARY GROWTH.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]