## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- n. 
- (1) (in embryology) the process in embryonic development during which unspecialized cells or tissues become specialized for particular functions. 
- (2) (in oncology) the degree of similarity of tumor cells to the structure of the organ from which the tumor arose. Tumors are classified as well, moderately, or poorly differentiated: well differentiated tumors appear similar to the cells of the organ in which they arose; poorly differentiated tumors do not. Such classification is often of prognostic significance and determines the grade of the tumor. Well-differentiated tumors are low-grade; poorly differentiated tumors are high-grade.
## Source[^2]
- The changes by which more specialized cells arise from less specialized cells, so that tissues and organs with particular functions can form during embryonic development. Furthermore, certain cells, called stem cells, retain the ability to differentiate throughout the life of the organism so that tissues can be replaced or repaired (see REGENERATION). Plants also have undifferentiated tissues (see MERISTEM) that give rise to the new tissues required for growth, a process that typically is lifelong. Whatever the type of organism, the specialization inherent in differentiation depends on sequential changes in the pattern of gene expression as cells undergo successive divisions. The mechanisms involved have been most intensively studied in experimental organisms, notably the fruit fly Drosophila. In this insect the general body plan is established in the early embryo by proteins called morphogens, which are encoded by maternal genes of follicle cells and diffuse into the developing embryo. The various morphogens set up a pattern of concentrations that activates genes in different zones of the embryo to different extents, creating the basic pattern of body segments. A class of genes within the embryo itself, the segment genes, further refine this pattern. Within each segment the differentiation of appendages, such as limbs, is controlled by homeotic genes.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]