## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (1) In employment relationships this is the unequal treatment of individuals, through hiring or employment rules or through differences in the conditions of employment, based on prejudice against one or more of their personal characteristics such as race, sex, religion, age, marital status, or union membership. In many countries such practices are illegal.
- (2) In international trade this is the treatment of imports on a different basis according to their country of origin. In a free-trade area, customs union, or common market, imports from non-members are subject to tariffs while imports from members are admitted tax-free. Even treating free-trade areas and common markets as single trading units, it is possible to discriminate between different non-members: there may be preferences in tariffs for goods from particular countries, or special quota arrangements applying to particular sources of imports. In contrast, the principle of most favored nation treatment ensures goods from all countries are admitted on the most favorable terms granted to any supplier. While the World Trade Organization commits countries in principle to non-discrimination, most world trade is in fact subject to various forms of discrimination.
## Source[^2]
- The practice of treating some people less favourably than others on grounds unrelated to merit, normally because they belong to a particular group or category. Under the Equality Act 2010 it is illegal to discriminate on grounds of sex, race, disability, religious or other belief, marriage or civil partnership, pregnancy or maternity, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, or age. Indirect discrimination is deemed to occur where a provision, criterion, or practice is applied to everyone but the result is to put one group at a particular disadvantage. In employment, the Act applies to decisions about who to employ, the terms and conditions of employment, and access to training and promotion. Discrimination may include harassment of an individual or any sort of victimization of a person who brings or supports a complaint under the legislation. The Act also applies to the provision of goods and services. See also EQUAL PAY; REASONABLE ADJUSTMENTS.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]