## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. (in psychology) the substitution of one type of behavior for another, usually the substitution of a relatively harmless activity for a harmful one; for example, kicking the cat instead of one's boss.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. Moving something from its current position. In psychoanalysis, a defence mechanism involving redirection of emotional feelings from their original object to a substitute object related to the original one by a chain of associations. Although not essential to the concept as originally conceived by Sigmund Freud (1856-1939), and expounded further in 1900 in his book The Interpretation of Dreams (Standard Edition, IV-V, at pp. 180-1, 306-8) and in other writings, the substitute object may be less threatening than the original one, and the displacement may therefore have the effect of avoiding or reducing anxiety. Displacement is a characteristic mechanism of the primary process. In an article in the journal La Psychoanalyse in 1957, the French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan (1901-81) related displacement to metonymy and the defence mechanism of condensation to metaphor. See also DISPLACED AGGRESSION, DREAMWORK, QUOTA OF AFFECT, TRANSFERENCE.
## Source[^3]
- (electric displacement; dielectric strain; electric flux density (symbol: $D$; unit: coulombs per meter squared). A vector quantity defined as$$D = \varepsilon_0 E + P$$where $E$ is the electric field strength, $P$ the dielectric polarization, and $\varepsilon_0$ the permittivity of free space. In a dielectric medium the total charge within any given closed surface consists of any free charges, $\rho_{\mathrm{e}}$, in the surface together with the apparent charge density, $-\mathrm{div}~P$, due to the polarization. The volume charge density becomes $(\rho_{\mathrm{e}} - \mathrm{div} ~P)$ and Gauss's theorem relating to a dielectric is written as$$\mathrm{div} ~E \cdot \mathrm{d} \tau = \left(\frac{1}{\varepsilon_0}\right) \int (\rho_{\mathrm{e}} - \mathrm{div} P) \mathrm{d} \tau$$where $\mathrm{d}\tau$ is a small volume element. It can therefore be shown that the displacement $D$ is given by$$\mathrm{div}~ D = \rho_{\mathrm{e}}$$In a vacuum $P$ is zero and Gauss's theorem is written as$$\operatorname{div} \boldsymbol{E} = \frac{\rho_{\mathrm{e}}}{\varepsilon_{0}}$$
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]