## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. a drug that increases the volume of urine produced by promoting the excretion of salts and water from the kidney. The main classes of diuretics act by inhibiting the reabsorption of salts and water from the kidney tubules into the bloodstream. Thiazide diuretics (e.g. bendroflumethiazide, chlortalidone) act at the distal convoluted tubules (see NEPHRON), preventing the reabsorption of sodium and potassium. Potassium-sparing diuretics (e.g. amiloride, spironolactone, triamterene) prevent excessive loss of potassium at the distal convoluted tubules, and loop diuretics (e.g. furosemide) prevent reabsorption of sodium and potassium in Henle's loop. Diuretics are used to reduce the oedema due to salt and water retention in disorders of the heart, kidneys, liver, or lungs. Thiazides and potassium-sparing diuretics are also used - in conjunction with other drugs - in the treatment of high blood pressure. Treatment with thiazide and loop diuretics often results in potassium deficiency; this is corrected by simultaneous administration of potassium salts or a potassium-sparing diuretic.
## Source[^2]
- A drug or other agent that increases the rate of urine formation and hence the rate at which water and certain salts are lost from the body. Many diuretic drugs work by decreasing the reabsorption of sodium and chloride ions from the filtrate in the kidney tubules, so that less water is reabsorbed. They are used to treat fluid retention (oedema) arising from disorders of the heart, kidneys, or other organs, and are used in helping to reduce high blood pressure (hypertension). There are several groups of diuretic drugs, with different modes of action. The most powerful are loop diuretics, such as furosemide, which act primarily by blocking $\mathrm{Na}^{+} / \mathrm{K}^{+} / \mathrm{Cl}^{-}$carriers in cells of the loop of Henle. Another group consists of the thiazides, such as metolazone, which inhibit $\mathrm{Na}^{+} / \mathrm{Cl}^{-}$transport in the distal convoluted tubule. Spironolactone exerts its diuretic effect by blocking the binding of the hormone aldosterone to its receptors. The osmotic diuretics, such as mannitol, act by increasing the osmolarity of the filtrate, and hence increasing urine volume.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]