## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. (in psychoanalysis) the part of the mind that develops from a person's experience of the outside world and is most in touch with external realities. In Freudian terms the ego is said to reconcile the demands of the id (the instinctive unconscious mind), the superego (moral conscience), and reality.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. In psychoanalysis, one of the three components of the human mental apparatus in the second formulation of the theory by Sigmund Freud (1856-1939), after he replaced the topography of unconscious-preconscious-conscious with the structural model of id-ego-superego in 1920. It is a largely conscious (1) part of the mind, governed mainly (though not exclusively) by the reality principle, mediating between external reality, the id, and the superego. In his book The Ego and the Id (1923) Freud described its role as follows: 'it owes service to three masters and is consequently menaced by three dangers: from the external world, from the libido of the id and from the severity of the super-ego' (Standard Edition, XIX, pp. 12-66, at p. 56). The ego is not simply the conscious mind, as is often stated in popularized accounts of Freud's theory: in a neurosis, the ego generates defence mechanisms, and this ego function is largely unconscious. Freud introduced the concept of the ego in his earliest writings, using the German word Ich, a noun that he coined from the ordinary everyday pronoun ich (I), and the translator James Strachey (1887-1967) rendered it as ego, adding a veneer of obscurity and technicality that the original German lacks. In colloquial usage, the word is used to denote a person's sense of self-esteem (Getting the job boosted her ego) or self-importance (The managing director has a big ego). See also EGO-DYSTONIC, EGO IDEAL, EGO INSTINCT, EGO INTEREST, EGO INVOLVEMENT, EGO LIBIDO, EGO PSYCHOLOGY, EGO STRENGTH, EGO-SYNTONIC, MIRROR PHASE, PLEASURE-EGO, REALITY-EGO, REGRESSION IN THE SERVICE OF THE EGO, SPLITTING OF THE EGO. \[From Latin ego I]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]