## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. the technique of separating electrically charged particles, particularly proteins, in a solution by passing an electric current through the solution. The rate of movement of the different components depends upon their charge, so that they gradually separate into bands. Electrophoresis is widely used in the investigation of body chemicals, such as the analysis of the different proteins in blood serum.
## Source[^2]
- (cataphoresis) A technique for the analysis and separation of colloids, based on the movement of charged colloidal particles in an electric field. There are various experimental methods. At its simplest the sample is placed in a U-tube and a buffer solution added to each arm, so that there are sharp boundaries between buffer and sample. An electrode is placed in each arm, a voltage applied, and the motion of the boundaries under the influence of the field is observed. The rate of migration of the particles depends on the field, the charge on the particles, and on other factors, such as the size and shape of the particles. Electrophoresis can also be carried out using an adsorbent, such as a strip of filter paper, soaked in a buffer with two electrodes making contact. The sample is placed between the electrodes and a voltage applied. Different components of the mixture migrate at different rates, so the sample separates into zones. The components can be identified by the rate at which they move. In gel electrophoresis the medium is a gel, typically made of polyacrylamide, agarose, or starch.
- Electrophoresis, which has also been called electrochromatography, is used extensively in studying mixtures of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates, enzymes, etc. In clinical medicine it is used for determining the protein content of body fluids. In modern automated DNA sequencers, electrophoresis is carried out in capillary tubes, typically less than 0.5 mm in diameter and about 48 cm long, containing a gel. See DNA SEQUENCING.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. The migration of suspended particles, such as segments of DNA, usually through a gel or colloid under the influence of an applied electrical field, the lightest particles tending to move furthest. Also called gel electrophoresis. See also GENETIC FINGERPRINTING, RESTRICTION MAPPING. \[From Greek elektron amber (in which electricity was first observed) + phoreein to bear]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]