## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (ECT) a treatment for severe depression and occasionally for puerperal psychosis, catatonia, and mania. A convulsion is produced by passing an electric current through the brain; this is thought to induce stimulation, and is modified by giving a muscle relaxant drug and an anaesthetic, so that in fact only a few muscle twitches are produced. The procedure can temporarily cause confusion and headache, which almost always pass off within a few hours. Patients often complain of memory problems during treatment, which normally subside when the treatment has ended. These side-effects are reduced by unilateral treatment, in which the current is passed only through the non-dominant hemisphere of the brain. A course of ECT usually entails between 6 and 10 treatments; sometimes up to 16 treatments are given to achieve remission of depression. ECT is effective in about $50 \%$ of patients in whom no other antidepressant treatment was successful, and NICE guidelines suggest it should be used in such cases. However, the beneficial effect on mood does not always last. Occasionally maintenance ECT (usually involving one treatment every 2-4 weeks) is given to avoid relapse after a completed course of ECT. Under the Mental Health Act 1983 (as amended 2007), special legal provision applies to ECT.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A treatment for some forms of depression and other mental disorders by administering an anaesthetic and a muscle relaxant drug and then passing an electric current through the brain to induce either convulsions or coma. It was first used on a human patient in 1938 by the Italian neurologist Ugo Cerletti (1877-1963), who got the idea from watching pigs being anaesthetized by electroshock before being butchered. Its mode of action is controversial and poorly understood. Also called electric shock therapy (EST), electroconvulsive shock (ECS), shock therapy. ECT abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]