## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (ER) a system of membranes present in the cytoplasm of cells. ER is described as rough when it has ribosomes attached to its surface and smooth when ribosomes are absent. It is the site of manufacture of proteins and lipids and is concerned with the transport of these products within the cell (see also Golgi APPARATUS).
## Source[^2]
- (ER) A system of membranes that extends throughout the cytoplasm of plant and animal cells forming interconnected tubes and flattened sacs (cisternae). It is part of the endomembrane system, which links many parts of the cell including the plasma and nuclear membranes (see CISTERNA). The ER is the site of protein synthesis and modification, and also the synthesis of lipids for new membranes. Rough ER (RER) has ribosomes attached to its surface, giving it a 'rough' appearance under the microscope. Here, newly synthesized proteins enter the interior lumen where they are sorted, chemically modified and folded to attain their tertiary structure, and tagged with a localization signal ('address') that determines their destination. The proteins are then enclosed in vesicles, which pinch off from the surface of the RER to be transported to the Golgi apparatus for further processing. Membrane proteins and lipids are made in the RER and are integrated into the ER membrane in situ to produce new membrane. Smooth ER (SER), which is continuous with RER, lacks ribosomes; it is the site of important metabolic reactions, including further protein modification of proteins, synthesis of phospholipids, fatty acids, and steroids, and (in certain animal cells) the breakdown of glycogen. It also chemically modifies and detoxifies molecules that enter the organism from outside, and is especially prominent in liver cells. SER stores calcium ions, release of which into the cytosol acts as a signal to trigger different responses. In muscle cells SER is adapted to form the sarcoplasmic reticulum.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. An extensive convoluted membrane inside cells, occurring in clumps called Nissl bodies, in which certain proteins are synthesized by ribosomes and are transported through or secreted from the cell. Areas of endoplasmic reticulum that are studded with protein-synthesizing ribosomes are called rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER), and areas that are not are called smooth endoplasmic reticulum (SER). See also ASPIRIN, MICROSOME, PROSTAGLANDIN. ER abbrev. \[From Greek endon within + plasma a form + Latin reticulum a little net, diminutive of rete a net]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]