## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Equity theory is the term used to describe the call for a fair balance between an employee's input and output. In other words, an employee's hard work, skill level, and overall contribution to the SMB should be reflected in their salary, benefits, and appreciation within the company. According to the equity theory, reaching this balance guarantees a strong and effective relationship between employee and employer and helps keep employee morale high.
## Source[^2]
- A cognitive theory of motivation, based on the work of J. Stacey Adams, which claims that employees will be motivated if they believe that they are fairly treated in the workplace. The theory proposes that employees form an estimate of how the total benefits they receive from a job (pay, status, interest) compare with their total input (effort, skill, experience); this ratio is then compared with that of other people doing similar work. If the latter comparison is unfavorable, motivation will suffer.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. A theory of social justice according to which people perceive a situation as fair when their own ratio of outcomes to inputs is the same as those of others with whom they compare themselves. Outcomes are the perceived receipts from a social interaction or exchange, including material benefits, social status, and intrinsic rewards, and inputs are the perceived contributions, including material contributions, seniority, education, skills, and effort. In terms of the theory, inequity is felt as uncomfortable even when it is in an individual's favor, and it tends to generate behavior aimed at restoring equity, such as altering inputs or outcomes or cognitively distorting them, leaving the field, attempting to distort the other person's perceptions of inputs or outcomes, or changing the person used as a point of comparison. It was formulated by the US sociologist George Caspar Homans (1910-89) in his books The Human Group (1950) and Social Behavior: Its Elementary Forms (1961) and introduced into psychology in 1965 by the Belgian-born US psychologist J(ohn) Stacey Adams (born 1925). See also COGNITIVE DISSONANCE, RELATIVE DEPRIVATION.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Glossary by Capterra]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]