## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (EMU) The EU policy that culminated in the creation of the European Central Bank (1999) and a single European currency for participating states.
- Monetary cooperation between the member states of the European Union began in 1979, with the establishment of the European Monetary System (EMS), a system of exchange-rate stabilization.
- The EMS consisted of two main elements: the Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM), under which participating countries committed themselves to maintaining the values of their currencies within agreed limits, and a balance of payments support mechanism, organized through the European Monetary Cooperation Fund. The ERM operated by giving each currency a value in European Currency Units (ECUs) and drawing up a parity grid giving exchange values in ECUs for each pair of currencies. If market rates differed from the agreed parity by more than a permitted percentage ( $2.25 \%$ or $6 \%$ depending on the currency), the relevant governments were required to take action to correct the disparity.
- The EMS suffered a major crisis in September 1992, when two currencies, the UK pound and the Italian lira, were effectively forced out of the ERM by speculative pressure (see Black Wednesday). The lira subsequently rejoined but the pound did not. From 1993 the currencies in the system were allowed wider (plus or minus 15%) fluctuations.
- Although some participants had seen the EMS as no more than a means of stabilizing exchange rates, the view that its ultimate goal should be Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), with a single currency and a single monetary policy directed by a European central bank, became official EU policy in 1989. The decision to create a common currency was enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty of 1991, which created the European Monetary Institute to coordinate the process of convergence.
- In June 1998 11 EU countries$\textemdash$all the then member states except Denmark, Greece, Sweden, and the UK$\textemdash$committed themselves to monetary union. Their currencies were locked together irrevocably and the European Central Bank (ECB) was established to direct the single monetary policy essential for EMU. A common currency, the euro, was launched in January 1999 for all purposes except cash transactions. Euro bank notes and coins came into circulation from January 2002 and the national currencies were withdrawn after a short transitional period.
- A new exchange-rate mechanism, known as ERM II, was established in January 1999 to enable those EU states remaining outside the eurozone to link their currencies to the euro if they so wished (with fluctuation rates of plus or minus $15 \%$ as the basic rule). Its initial members were Denmark and Greece (the latter of which adopted the euro in 2001).
- With the single currency established, all countries subsequently joining the EU are required to participate in ERM II as soon as this is judged economically practicable and to adopt the euro in due course. Countries must participate in ERM II for a minimum of two years before adopting the euro. Of the 13 states that have joined the EU since 2004, Slovenia joined the eurozone in 2007, Cyprus and Malta in 2008, Slovakia in 2009, Estonia in 2011, Latvia in 2014, and Lithuania in 2015. Of the earlier members, only Sweden and the UK remain outside the European Monetary System. See also CONVERGENCE CRITERIA.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]