## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A cost or benefit to an economic agent that is not matched by a compensating financial flow. For example, siting a railway station close to a housing estate represents an externality to householders on that estate. It is an external economy if the householders benefit from shorter journey times to work (and consequent rising house prices) and an external diseconomy if the noise of trains keeps them awake at night. In business, externalities can be defined as those economic effects of an entity that are not recorded in its accounts as they do not arise from individual transactions. For example, local overcrowding may arise because a large number of employees have been attracted to the neighbourhood, thus incurring extra costs for roads, schools, health care, etc. It is usually argued that governments should take steps to internalize external diseconomies, such as pollution, by means of taxation or other penalties. See also FREE RIDE; MARKET FAILURE.
## Source[^2]
- A cost or benefit arising from any activity which does not accrue to the person or organization carrying out the activity. Negative externalities cause damage to people, firms, or the environment, for example by radiation, river or air pollution, or noise, which does not have to be paid for by those carrying out the activity. Positive externalities are effects of an activity which are pleasant or profitable but for which no price can be charged, for example fertilization of fruit trees by bees, or the public's enjoyment of views of private buildings or gardens. Externalities may be technological or pecuniary. Technological externalities affect others in non-market ways, for example by polluting their water supply; they create a prima facie case for intervention in the interests of efficiency. Pecuniary externalities mean that the effects occur through the market: for example, the emergence of a new industry may raise labour costs for other employers, or reduce the value of their capital by capturing their customers. Pecuniary externalities do not result in Pareto inefficiency so there is no case for intervention, except possibly on grounds of income distribution. See also COMPENSATION FOR EXTERNALITIES; CONSUMPTION EXTERNALITY; INTERNALIZING EXTERNALITIES; NETWORK EXTERNALITY; PRODUCTION EXTERNALITY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]