## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- An exploratory research group of 8 to 12 participants, led by a moderator, who meet for an in-depth discussion on one particular topic or concept. The participants are generally chosen for their relevance to the particular topic or concept. By skilful use of probes and other interviewing devices, the group members are encouraged to respond in depth to the moderator. These group discussions largely depend for their success on the moderator, who must establish the right atmosphere in order to gain the maximum involvement and cooperation of all the group members. Focus groups are useful in the early stages of developing methods to understand the nature of business or organizational problems and for suggesting issues that should be covered in a questionnaire survey. Discussions are usually recorded and observed through see-through mirrors (with the full knowledge of the group members). Normally, these groups last for between one and three months.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A small group of people selected and assembled for research purposes, to participate in an organized discussion, under the guidance of a moderator, of an issue or topic of which they have personal experience. Focus groups were first proposed by the US sociologist Robert K(ing) Merton (1910-2003) and co-authors in The Focused Interview: A Manual of Problems and Procedures (1956), and they have had a long history in market research, where they have been used to sample the range of opinions and attitudes that might be expected in the wider population. They have been used to a lesser extent in psychology, generally in the tradition of qualitative research, when interaction between group members is felt to add an important element that is lacking in other types of interviews.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]