## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- an illness affecting the digestive system that results from eating food that is contaminated by bacteria or bacterial toxins, viruses, or (less commonly) by residues of insecticides (on fruit and vegetables) or poisonous chemicals such as lead or mercury. It can also be caused by eating poisonous fungi, berries, etc. Symptoms commence 1-24 hours after ingestion and include nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, and abdominal pain. Food-borne infections are caused by bacteria of the genera Salmonella, Campylobacter, and Listeria in foods of animal origin. The disease is transmitted by human carriers who handle the food, by shellfish growing in sewage-polluted waters, or by vegetables fertilized by manure. Toxinproducing bacteria causing food poisoning include those of the genus Staphylococcus, which rapidly multiply in warm foods; pathogenic Escherichia coli; and the species Clostridium perfringens, which multiplies in reheated cooked meals. A rare form of food poisoning $\textendash$ botulism $\textendash$ is caused by toxins produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum, which may contaminate badly preserved canned foods. See also GASTROENTERITIS.
## Source[^2]
- An acute illness caused by food that may be naturally poisonous or contaminated by certain types of pathogenic microorganisms, parasites, or toxins from other sources such as pesticides. The most common type of food poisoning in the UK is that caused by the bacteria belonging to the genus Salmonella, which inhabit the alimentary canal of livestock. Other food poisoning bacteria include Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, Campylobacter jejuni, Listeria monocytogenes, and pathogenic Escherichia coli. Norovirus, found in raw shellfish, also causes symptoms of food poisoning, notably diarrhoea and vomiting. Freezing and other types of food preservation can prevent the growth of the bacteria and thorough cooking will kill the microorganisms before the meat is eaten. However, food poisoning can result if frozen meat is not completely thawed at its centre before cooking, as it may not reach sufficiently high temperatures to kill the bacteria during cooking. Another type of food poisoning, known as botulism, is caused by toxins produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum, which can grow in badly preserved canned foods.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]