## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (in psychoanalysis) a technique in which the patient is encouraged to pursue a particular train of ideas as they enter consciousness. See also ASSOCIATION OF IDEAS.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A technique of psychoanalysis in which the patient is encouraged to relate to the analyst all thoughts, feelings, wishes, sensations, memories, and images that come to mind, however embarrassing or trivial they might seem. It is designed to incapacitate the second censorship between the preconscious and consciousness, thereby exposing the unconscious defences operating through the first censorship between the unconscious (2) and preconscious. Sigmund Freud (1856-1939) revealed in 'A Note on the Prehistory of the Technique of Analysis' in 1920 that he was influenced by the German political writer and satirist Ludwig Börne (originally called Löb Baruch, 1786-1837), who recommended a form of generative writing that begins by putting on paper everything that comes to mind, in order to avoid self-censorship and to increase originality (Standard Edition, XVIII, pp. 263-5, at p. 265). Some credit for developing the technique should be given to Frau Emmy von N, one of Freud's earliest patients who, as Freud recounted in 1895 in his co-authored book Studies on Hysteria (Standard Edition, II), asked him 'not to keep on asking her where this or that came from, but to let her tell me what she had to say' (p. 63), and when she followed this procedure, her verbal accounts turned out to contain 'a fairly complete reproduction of the memories and new impressions which have affected her since our last talk, and it often leads on, in a quite unexpected way, to pathogenic reminiscences of which she unburdens herself without being asked to' (p. 56). At about the same time (in 1904) and independently of Freud, Carl Gustav Jung (1875-1961) introduced his word-association test, and this also influenced the development of the technique of free association. See also DREAM ANALYSIS, FUNDAMENTAL RULE OF PSYCHOANALYSIS. Compare DIRECTED ASSOCIATION, INTROSPECTION.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]