## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. An impaired ability to solve a problem requiring the use of a particular object, the impairment being caused by recent use of the object for a different function, or by recent perception of the object performing a different function. The phenomenon was first reported in 1935 by the German-born US psychologist Karl Duncker (1903-40), who experimented with five problems, including what he called the box problem: Three small lighted candles are to be attached to a wooden door at eye level. The participants or subjects were presented with many objects, including a matchbox containing matches, a similar-sized cardboard box containing small candles, and a third similar box containing thumbtacks (drawing pins). The solution was to empty the three boxes, to fix them to the door with thumbtacks, and to stand a lighted candle in each box. Only 43 per cent of Duncker's subjects solved the box problem in that form, but 100 per cent of a control group solved it when presented with the same objects but with the three boxes empty, thus avoiding functional fixedness arising from perceiving the boxes as containers of other objects. Across all five problems, Duncker found that functional fixedness of the crucial objects reduced the number of solutions by almost a half. Duncker pointed out that the phenomenon applies not only to physical objects or tools, but also to mental objects or concepts. A translation from the original German into English of Duncker's classic article was published in the journal Psychological Monographs in 1945. Also called functional fixity or functional embeddedness. See also Einstellung, set (2).
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]