## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- An agreement to buy or sell a fixed quantity of a particular commodity, currency, or security for delivery at a fixed date in the future at a fixed price. Unlike an option, a futures contract involves a definite purchase or sale and not an option to buy or sell; it therefore may entail a potentially unlimited loss. However, futures provide an opportunity for those who must purchase goods regularly to hedge against changes in price and for speculators to make large profits. In London, futures are traded in a variety of markets. Financial futures are traded on the LIFFE (now effectively part of ICE Futures Europe), whose commodity department deals with shipping and with cocoa, coffee, and other foodstuffs; the London Metal Exchange deals with metals; and the International Petroleum Exchange (ICE Futures Europe) with oil. In many cases actual goods (see ACTUALS) do not pass between dealers in these futures markets, a bought contract being cancelled out by an equivalent sale contract, and vice versa; money differences arising as a result are usually settled through a clearing house. In some futures markets only brokers are allowed to trade; in others, both dealers and brokers are permitted to do so. See also FORWARD DEALING.

## Source[^2]
- A contract to buy or sell a good, share, or currency on a future date, at a price decided when the contract is entered into. A futures contract entails for each party both the right and the obligation to trade; it is contrasted with an option which confers the right to trade only on one party and the obligation only on the other. Futures contracts can be used to reduce risk by traders who have to hold a good and want protection against a low price, or who know they are going to have to buy and want protection against a high price. The contract can also be used for speculation by a trader who has a different opinion about expected price movements from that prevailing in the futures market. Futures contracts are traded on an exchange, which balances its buying and selling contracts, enforces daily settlement, and collects margin payments from each side to ensure that they will be able to honour their contracts.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]