## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- treatment directed to curing genetic disease by introducing normal genes into patients to overcome the effects of defective genes, using techniques of genetic engineering. The most radical approach would be to do this at a very early stage in the embryo, so that the new gene would be incorporated into the germ cells (ova and sperm) and would therefore be inheritable. However, this approach is not considered to be either safe or ethical, because the consequences would affect all descendants of the patient, and it is not being pursued. In somatic cell gene therapy the healthy gene is inserted into somatic cells (such as the haemopoietic stem cells of the bone marrow) that give rise to other cells. All the surviving descendants of these modified cells will then be normal and, if present in sufficient numbers, the condition will be cured (the defective gene will, however, still be present in the germ cells).
- At present, gene therapy is most feasible for treating disorders caused by a defect in a single recessive gene, so that the deficiency can be overcome by the introduction of a normal allele (therapy for disorders caused by dominant genes (e.g. Huntington's disease) would require the modification or replacement of the defective allele as its effect is expressed in the presence of a normal allele). Examples of such recessive disorders include adenosine deaminase (ADA) deficiency and cystic fibrosis. Gene therapy trials for the former condition have already begun: lymphocyte stem cells are isolated from the patient, using monoclonal antibodies, and incubated with retroviruses that have been genetically engineered to contain the normal ADA gene (see VECTOR). This gene thus becomes integrated into the stem cells, which - when returned to the patient's bone marrow - can then produce normal lymphocytes. A similar technique has been used in treating patients with severe combined immune deficiency and is feasible for other blood disorders, such as sickle-cell anaemia and thalassaemia.
- Clinical trials for the gene therapy of cystic fibrosis involve using liposomes to introduce the normal gene into the lungs of sufferers via an inhaler.
- Gene therapy for certain types of cancer is also undergoing clinical trials. Here the approach is aimed at introducing into the cancer cells tumoursuppressing genes, such as $ p 53$ (which prevents uncontrolled cell division), or genes that direct the production of substances (such as interleukin 2) that stimulate the immune system to destroy the tumor cells.
## Source[^2]
- The application of genetic engineering techniques to alter or replace defective genes. A defective gene may result from an incorrect sequence of bases in the DNA molecule or an inability of the gene to code for the expression of a particular polypeptide. Cells can be removed from the body to allow their DNA to be corrected and then reinserted; alternatively, the normal 'healthy' gene can be directly targeted to the appropriate cells inside the body. The goal is to make the corrected gene work in a way that is effective, reliable, sustainable, and safe for the patient, but this is often difficult to achieve. Retroviruses are often used as vectors for transferring genes into cells as part of the natural retrovirus life cycle involves the insertion of their own genetic material into the chromosomes of their host. Alternatively liposomes may be used. Another option is to use microRNAs to 'knock out' defective genes in certain tissues (see RNA INTERFERENCE). Precise site-specific changes in DNA can now be made using the techniques of genome editing. These avoid the unpredictable integration of viral vectors and have potential to correct defective genes in tissue cell lines or stem cells derived from a patient. Such cells can then be reintroduced to the patient to treat the condition. See also ADENO-ASSOCIATED VIRUS.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]