## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (recombinant DNA technology) the techniques involved in altering the characteristics of an organism by inserting genes from another organism into its DNA. This altered DNA (known as recombinant DNA) is usually produced by isolating foreign genes, often by the use of restriction enzymes, and inserting them into bacterial DNA, often using viruses as vectors. Once inserted, the foreign gene may use the cell machinery of its host to synthesize the protein that it originally coded for in the organism it was derived from. For example, the human genes for insulin, interferon, and growth hormone production have been incorporated into bacterial DNA and such genetically engineered bacteria are used in the commercial production of these substances. Some other applications of genetic engineering include DNA analysis, the production of monoclonal antibodies, and $\textendash$ more recently $\textendash$ gene therapy.
## Source[^2]
- (recombinant DNA technology) The techniques involved in altering the characters of an organism by modifying its genome. This can mean changing the base sequence of its DNA in some way, e.g. by knockout or genome editing, or inserting genes from another organism to create recombinant DNA. Alternatively, entirely new genes can be assembled from scratch using sequence information and DNA synthesizers to code for proteins with particular desired properties (see SYNTHETIC BIOLOGY). Bacteria or yeasts containing the recombinant genes serve as 'cellular factories', synthesizing the desired protein. Genetic engineering has many applications, ranging from the commercial production of insulin and other hormones, vaccines, etc., to the creation of transgenic animals and crop plants in agriculture (see GENETICALLY MODIFIED ORGANISMS). See also DNA LIBRARY; DNA PROBE; GENE CLONING; GENE THERAPY; MONOCLONAL ANTIBODY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]