## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (GP) a doctor working in the community who provides family health services to a local area. General practitioners (also known as family doctors or family practitioners) may work on their own or in a group practice in which they share premises and other resources with one or more other doctors. GPs are usually the first port of call for most patients with concerns about their health. They look after patients with wide-ranging medical conditions and can refer patients with more complex problems to specialists, such as hospital consultants. Some GPs with additional training and experience in a specific clinical area take referrals for assessment and treatment that may otherwise have been referred directly to hospital consultants; these are known as GPs with a special interest (GPwSI or GPSI). Most GPs work solely within the National Health Service but a few work completely privately. The current model of general practice allows for GPs to provide general medical services (GMS), the terms and conditions of which are governed by a national contract which is usually negotiated on an annual basis, or personal medical services (PMS), the terms and conditions of which are governed by locally negotiated contracts within a broad framework. The new primary care contract (nGMS contract) came into force in April 2004, allowing GPs to opt out of weekend and night (out-of-hours) service provision for patients registered with their practice. In this period, patient care is usually provided by an out-of-hours cooperative or deputizing service. At the same time the government also introduced the Quality and Outcomes Framework (QOF) as a means to improve the quality of care provided. Most GPs are independent contractors although more recently there has been an increase in the number of salaried GPs. GPs may employ a variety of staff, including practice nurses, nurse practitioners, and counsellors.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]