## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- screening tests to discover individuals whose genotypes are associated with specific diseases. Such individuals may later develop the disease itself or pass it on to their children (see CARRIER). The recent use of genetic screening to diagnose the sex of the fetus so that the parents may 'choose' the sex of their children has caused considerable controversy. See also MOUTHWASH TEST; PREIMPLANTATION GENETIC DIAGNOSIS.
## Source[^2]
- The process by which the genome of a human or other organism is analyzed for genetic markers (see MARKER GENE) that indicate the presence of particular genes, especially ones that cause or predispose to certain diseases. Increased knowledge of the human genome (see human genome project) and technological advances have simplified genetic screening in persons with a family history of certain inherited diseases, e.g. certain forms of breast cancer. Clinical gene testing is now used routinely to screen for many different genes, either to assess the risk of disease in susceptible individuals or their offspring or to confirm a diagnosis of inherited disease. When there is a risk of inherited genetic disease, early embryos can be screened to detect the presence of harmful alleles so that normal embryos can be selected for implantation in the mother's womb (see PREIMPLANTATION GENETIC DIAGNOSIS). Commercial gene test kits are available to the general population, although claims that these can determine the risk of healthy individuals developing, say, heart disease or cancer should be treated with caution. Such tests have major implications for the insurance industry as well as for medicine. For example, some healthy individuals may be expected to pay a higher premium for life insurance because genetic screening reveals the presence of such genes. See also ASSISTED REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]