## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. a condition of the optic nerve in which a loss of retinal nerve fibers leads to loss of vision. The most significant and manageable risk factor is the pressure in the eye. There are two types of primary glaucoma (in which no other ocular disease is present): acute and chronic simple. In acute (or angle-closure) glaucoma, there is an abrupt rise in pressure due to sudden closure of the angle of the anterior chamber between the cornea and iris where aqueous humor usually drains from the eye. This is accompanied by sudden and severe pain with marked blurring of vision associated with inflammation of the anterior segment. In the more common chronic simple (or open-angle) glaucoma, the pressure increases gradually, usually without any symptoms, and the visual loss is insidious. The same type of visual loss may also occur in eyes with a normal pressure: this is called normal (or low-tension) glaucoma. Primary glaucoma occurs increasingly with age and is an important cause of blindness. It is frequently hereditary. Secondary glaucoma may occur when other ocular disease impairs the normal circulation of the aqueous humor and causes the intraocular pressure to rise.
- In all types of glaucoma the aim of the treatment is to reduce the intraocular pressure. Drugs used for this purpose include beta blockers (e.g. timolol, levobunolol, carteolol), carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (e.g. brinzolamide, dorzolamide), alpha-receptor stimulants (e.g. apraclonidine, brimonidine), and prostaglandin analogues (e.g. latanoprost, bimatoprost, travaprost, tafluprost). They can be used in the form of eye drops. If the medical treatment is ineffective, surgery may be performed to allow the aqueous humor to drain from the eye in sufficient quantities to enable the pressure to return to normal. Such operations may either make a new channel through which the aqueous drains (known as drainage or filtering operations) or involve the insertion of a narrow tube (tube surgery).
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A relatively common disorder of the eye in which fluid pressure increases within the eyeball because of obstruction of the outflow of aqueous humor, impairing vision and eventually causing tunnel vision if not corrected. Acute glaucoma, accompanied by a dilated pupil, intense pain, blurred vision, and red eye, results from the pupil dilating in a manner that causes the iris to fold back against the cornea and to block the exit of aqueous humor, and it results in complete and permanent blindness within 2-5 days if untreated with eye drops that constrict the pupil and unfold the iris; chronic glaucoma, which is much more common and often bilateral, develops insidiously, often without symptoms apart from gradual loss of peripheral vision, and is caused by a genetic factor. \[From Greek glaukoma cataract, from glaukos bluish-green or grey + -oma indicating an abnormality, alluding to the appearance of an eye affected by cataract, with which glaucoma was confused]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]