## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (dextrose) n. a simple sugar containing six carbon atoms (a hexose). Glucose is an important source of energy in the body and the sole source of energy for the brain. Free glucose is not found in many foods (grapes are an exception); however, glucose is one of the constituents of both sucrose and starch, both of which yield glucose after digestion. Glucose is stored in the body in the form of glycogen. The concentration of glucose in the blood is maintained at around $5 ~\mathrm{mmol} / \mathrm{l}$ by a variety of hormones, principally insulin and glucagon. If the blood-glucose concentration falls below this level neurological and other symptoms may result (see HYPOGLYCAEMIA). Conversely, if the blood-glucose level is raised above its normal level, to $10~ \mathrm{mmol} / \mathrm{l}$, the condition of hyperglycaemia develops. This is a symptom of diabetes mellitus.
## Source[^2]
- (dextrose; grape sugar) A white crystalline sugar, $\mathrm{C}_{6} \mathrm{H}_{12} \mathrm{O}_{6}$, occurring widely in nature. Like other monosaccharides, glucose is optically active: most naturally occurring glucose is dextrorotatory. Glucose and its derivatives are crucially important in the energy metabolism of living organisms. It is a major energy source, being transported around the body in blood, lymph, and cerebrospinal fluid to the cells, where energy is released in the process of glycolysis. Glucose is present in the sap of plants, in fruits, and in honey and is also a constituent of many polysaccharides, most notably of starch and cellulose. These yield glucose when broken down, for example by enzymes during digestion. Maintenance of a constant glucose concentration in the blood, primarily through the actions of the hormones insulin and glucagon, is vital for cell metabolism. In particular, cells of the nervous system depend almost exclusively on glucose as an energy source, whereas most other cells can switch to fatty acids when levels of glucose fall.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]