## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Grammar refers to the way words are used, classified, and structured together to form coherent written or spoken communication
- The traditional approach to teaching English grammar is breaking the topic into three fundamental elements
	- Parts of Speech
	- Inflection
	- Syntax
## Source[^2]
- One of the principal ways of specifying an infinite formal language by finite means. A grammar consists of a set of rules (called productions or [[rewrite rule|rewrite rules]]) that may be used to derive one string from another by substring replacement. The strings of the specified language are obtained by repeated application of these rules, starting from some initial string. A grammar however has the additional feature that the alphabet is divided into a set $T$ of [[terminal symbol|terminal symbols]] and a set $N$ of nonterminal symbols (or variables). While productions may be composed arbitrarily of terminals and nonterminals, the specified language contains strings of terminals only.

  

A grammar $G$ can therefore be defined as comprising two sets of symbols $T$ and $N$, a semi-Thue system over the union $T \cup N$, and a distinguished member $S$ of $N$. The language generated by $G$ is the set of all strings over $T$ that can be derived from $S$ by a sequence of substring replacements (see SEMI-THUE SYSTEM); $S$ is known as the [[start symbol]] or sentence symbol. As an example, let $T$ be $\{b, c\}, N$ be $\{S, A\}$ and let the productions be

(1) $S \rightarrow S A$

(2) $S \rightarrow A$

(3) $A \rightarrow b c$

  

Then, for instance, starting from $S$ we can derive $b c b c b c$ via the following sequence (among others):

  

SA by production 1

$S A A$ by production 1

$A A A$ by production 2

$b c A A$ by production 3

$b c b c A$ by production 3

$b c b c b c$ by production 3

  

The language generated is

  

$$

\{b c, b c b c, b c b c b c, \ldots\}

$$

  

These are the only strings of $b$ s and cs in $\{b, c\}^{}$ derivable from the start symbol $S$ by the three production rules. A string such as $S A b c A$, which is derivable from $S$ but still contains [[nonterminal|nonterminals]], is referred to as a [[sentential form]].

  

This is the most general form of grammar. Typically however some restriction is placed on the form that productions may take (see CONTEXT-FREE GRAMMAR, CONTEXTSENSITIVE GRAMMAR, REGULAR GRAMMAR). The syntax of programming languages is usually specified by context-free grammars; the example given above is context-free, although the language can be specified by a regular grammar.

  

A slightly different way of generating a language is by means of an L-system (or Lindenmeyer system). A different approach altogether is to define a machine that tests any string for membership of the language, i.e. an automaton.
## Source[^3]
- n. 
- (1) The branch of linguistics concerned with sentence structure, especially syntax and morphology (2).
- (2) The system of implicit rules governing a speaker's use of a language, especially semantics and phonology. See also CASE GRAMMAR, CONTEXT-DEPENDENT GRAMMAR, CONTEXT-FREE GRAMMAR, FINITE-STATE GRAMMAR, GENERATIVE GRAMMAR, PHRASE-STRUCTURE GRAMMAR, PIVOT GRAMMAR, TRANSFORMATIONAL GRAMMAR, UNIVERSAL GRAMMAR. \[From Greek grammatikos concerning letters]
## References

[^1]: https://youtu.be/tdkYOla0CiQ?si=jalrDjw7G9ZWsHe6
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]