## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- a method of staining bacterial cells, used as a primary means of identification. A film of bacteria spread onto a glass slide is dried and heat-fixed, stained with a violet dye, treated with decolourizer (e.g. alcohol), and then counterstained with red dye. Gram-negative bacteria lose the initial stain but take up the counterstain, so that they appear red microscopically. Gram-positive bacteria retain the initial stain, appearing violet microscopically. These staining differences are based on variations in the structure of the cell wall in the two groups. \[H. C. J. Gram (1853-1938), Danish physician]
## Source[^2]
- A staining method used to differentiate bacteria. The bacterial sample is smeared on a microscope slide, stained with a violet dye, treated with acetone-alcohol (a decolourizer), and finally counterstained with a red dye. Gram-positive bacteria retain the first dye, appearing blue-black under the microscope; such bacteria have a thick layer of peptidoglycan in their cell walls. In Gram-negative bacteria, the acetone-alcohol washes out the violet dye and the counterstain is taken up, the cells appearing red. The cell walls of these bacteria have an outer layer of lipoprotein overlying a thin layer of peptidoglycan. The more complex cell walls of Gram-negative bacteria can often increase their virulence, giving them greater potential to cause fever or shock in their hosts and more resistance to host defences and to antibiotics. The stain is named after the Danish bacteriologist H. C. J. Gram (1853-1938), who first described the technique (since modified) in 1884.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]