## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- any of various chemicals, particularly polypeptides, that have a variety of important roles in the stimulation of new cell growth and cell maintenance. They bind to the cell surface on receptors and are potential targets for anticancer therapy (see EPIDERMAL GROWTH FACTOR RECEPTOR). Specific growth factors can cause new cell proliferation (e.g. transforming growth factor, epidermal growth factor, haemopoietic growth factor) and the migration of cells (fibroblast growth factor) and play a role in wound healing (platelet-derived growth factor; PDGF). Some growth factors act in the embryonic stage of development; for example, nerve growth factor. Some growth factors that induce cell proliferation are involved in the abnormal regulation of growth seen in cancer when produced in excessive amounts (e.g. insulin-like growth factor, IGF-I). Growth factors produced locally around a carcinoma (e.g. vascular endothelial growth factor) are important in the encouragement of invasion by the tumor; other factors (e.g. autocrine motility factor, migration-stimulating factor) are also significant. See also BONE GROWTH FACTORS.
## Source[^2]
- Any of various chemicals, particularly polypeptides, that have a variety of important roles in the stimulation of new cell growth and cell maintenance. They bind to the cell surface on receptors. Specific growth factors can cause new cell proliferation (epidermal growth factor, insulin-like growth factor, haemopoietic growth factor$\textemdash$see HAEMOPOIETIC TISSUE) and the migration of cells (see FIBROBLAST GROWTH FACTOR). Plateletderived growth factor (PDGF) is released by platelets in response to tissue damage. It stimulates the proliferation of fibroblasts, which contribute to wound healing. Some growth factors act in the embryonic stage of development; for example, nerve growth factor (see NEUROTROPHIN) stimulates the growth of axons and dendrites from developing sensory and sympathetic neurons. Some growth factors or their receptors are involved in the abnormal regulation of growth seen in cancer when produced in excessive amounts or permanently activated. See also BONE MORPHOGENETIC FACTOR; TRANSFORMING GROWTH FACTOR BETA.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]