## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A cell that is equipped with hairlike cilia and specialized for detecting movement of the surrounding medium, whether water or air; hence, it transduces mechanical stimuli into electrical stimuli, in the form of nerve impulses in associated sensory nerves. Hair cells occur in various types of vertebrate sensory organs, including the mammalian ear and the lateral-line system of fishes and amphibians. A characteristic feature is the array of cilia projecting from the cell's apical surface. These typically include a single long kinocilium and 20-300 much shorter stereocilia. The shafts of the cilia are usually embedded in an accessory structure, such as the cupula in the ampulla of the inner ear. Movement of the accessory structure causes the cilia to bend, which changes the cell's membrane potential and alters the pattern of impulses in the afferent sensory neuron.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. Any of the cylindrical or flask-shaped sensory receptor cells for hearing in the organ of Corti of the cochlea, or any of the similar cells in the vestibular system that are involved in the sense of balance and orientation and that enable human beings to walk upright, certain animals to detect vibrations in the ground, and fishes to detect displacements of water. The cell is divided into three sections: a front end consisting of a cone-shaped bundle of 30 to 150 stereocilia (which are not true cilia) together with a single true cilium called a kinocilium, a middle section containing the cell nucleus, mitochondria, and Golgi apparatuses, and a back section consisting of nerve endings that feed in to the nervous system, the cell as a whole functioning as an extremely sensitive mechano-electrical transducer that converts kinetic energy into electrical nerve impulses. A mammalian hair cell responds along its axis of maximum sensitivity to movements of its tip of 100 picometres (trillionths of a metre, about the same distance as the diameter of some atoms), but is totally insensitive to movement along the perpendicular axis. See also Deiters' CELL, INNER HAIR CELL, OUTER HAIR CELL.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]