## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- a device to improve the hearing. Simple passive devices, such as ear trumpets, are now rarely used. An analogue hearing aid consists of a miniature microphone, an amplifier, and a tiny loudspeaker. The aid is powered by a battery and the whole unit is small enough to fit behind or within the ear inconspicuously. If necessary, aids can be built into the frames of spectacles. In a few cases of conductive hearing loss the loudspeaker is replaced by a vibrator that presses on the bone behind the ear and transmits the sound energy through the bones of the skull to the inner ear. Digital hearing aids are in some respects similar to analogue aids but in addition to the microphone, amplifier, and loudspeaker, they have digital-to-analogue converters and a tiny computer built into the casing of the aid. This enables the aid to be programmed to the patient's particular requirements and generally offers improved sound quality. See also BONE-ANCHORED HEARING AID; COCHLEAR IMPLANT; ENVIRONMENTAL HEARING AID; IMPLANTABLE HEARING AID.
## Source[^2]
- A complete sound-reproduction system that increases the sound intensity at the ear. Modern hearing aids use a small crystal microphone, battery-powered amplifier, and earpiece. The development of integrated circuits has allowed hearing aids to become very small and light and they may be hidden in a spectacles frame. Good sound quality at sufficient power output for most cases is obtained with volume and tone controls available to the wearer. Special types of hearing aids include those designed to amplify a specific frequency band only and those in which the output from the amplifier is used to produce vibrations in the mastoid bone behind the ear, thus bypassing a defective outer or middle ear.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]