## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A measure of the degree to which the variance of a particular phenotype is caused by genetic factors. It is given by a value between 0 and 1 and effectively measures the extent to which offspring resemble their parents relative to the population mean. Estimates of heritability are important in applied genetics, especially in agriculture and horticulture, because they enable prediction of the response of a population to artificial selection. The higher the heritability value, the greater the response, although heritability declines after several generations of artificial selection due to increasing homozygosity. The term is used in two different ways. Heritability in the narrow sense is the proportion of phenotypic variance due only to the additive genetic effect of all the polygenes controlling a particular trait; hence it measures the proportion that is transmissible to offspring and therefore amenable to selection. Heritability in the broad sense considers other genetic but nontransmissible factors as well, including dominance and epistasis; it is used, for example, in psychology to quantify genetic and environmental influences.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. The proportion of variance, symbolized by $h^{2}$, in a phenotypic variable that is explained by, attributable to, or shared with genetic variance in a specified population at a particular time. Thus if $h^{2}=$ .30 for a particular trait, this means that 30 per cent of the total phenotypic variance in that trait is explained by genetic factors. The broad heritability $h^{2}$ of a trait is the ratio of genetic variance $V_{G}$ to total phenotypic variance $V_{\mathrm{P}}$, and its definition is: $h^{2}$ (broad) $=V_{\mathrm{G}} / V_{\mathrm{P}}$. Narrow heritability is the ratio of additive genetic variance $V_{\mathrm{A}}$, excluding the effects of dominance (genetic), epistasis, and assortative mating, to total phenotypic variance $V_{\mathrm{P}}$, its definition being: $h^{2}$ (narrow) $=V_{\mathrm{A}} / V_{\mathrm{P}}$. See also adoption STUDY, DF EXTREMES ANALYSIS, EMERGENESIS, KINSHIP STUDY, POPULATION GENETICS, TWIN STUDY. Compare ENVIRONMENTABILITY. The term hereditability, although found in some textbooks and dictionaries, is a barbarism that is avoided in careful usage. heritable adj. Capable of being inherited. \[From Old French heriter to inherit, from Latin hereditas inheritance, from heres an heir + -abilitas capacity, from habilis able]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]