## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A 'rule of thumb', based on domain knowledge from a particular application, that gives guidance in the solution of a problem. Unlike algorithms, heuristics cannot have proven performance bounds owing to their open-ended dependence on specific application knowledge; an example is 'If the sky is cloudy, then carry an umbrella.' Heuristics may thus be very valuable most of the time but their results or performance cannot be guaranteed.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A rough-and-ready procedure or rule of thumb for making a decision, forming a judgement, or solving a problem without the application of an algorithm or an exhaustive comparison of all available options, and hence without any guarantee of obtaining a correct or optimal result. The concept can be traced to the work of the US political scientist and decision theorist Herbert A(lexander) Simon (1916-2001) who first suggested in 1957 that human decision makers with bounded rationality use such procedures when thorough examination of all available options is infeasible. The German psychologists Karl Duncker (1903-40) and Wolfgang Köhler (1887-1967) had earlier interpreted the term more closely to its Greek roots to denote 'serving to find out or discover'. The concept was reintroduced into psychology in the early 1970s by the IsraeliAmerican psychologists Amos Tversky (1937-96) and Daniel Kahneman (born 1934), and the most important heuristics initially identified and studied by them were the anchoring and adjustment heuristic, the availability heuristic, and the representativeness heuristic. Also called a cognitive heuristic. See also base-rate fallacy, Cancellation Heuristic, DUAL-PROCESS MODEL, MEANS-END ANALYSIS, RECOGNITION HEURISTIC, REGRESSION FALLACY, SAMPLE SIZE FALLACY, SATISFICING, SIMULATION HEURISTIC. Compare Algorithm. heuristic adj. \[From Greek heuriskein to find]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]