## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. (in psychoanalysis) a part of the unconscious mind governed by the instinctive forces of libido and the death instinct (governing aggression, etc.). These violent forces seek immediate release in action or in symbolic form. The id is therefore said to be governed by the pleasure principle and not by the demands of reality or of logic. In the course of individual development some of the functions of the id are taken over by the ego.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. In psychoanalysis, one of the three components of the human mental apparatus in the second formulation of Sigmund Freud (1856-1939), after he replaced the topography of unconscious-preconscious-conscious with the structural model of id-ego-superego in 1920. It is a reservoir of energy derived from instincts (3), governed by the pleasure principle, and its contents are unconscious (1), some being innate and others derived from experience but submerged by repression, and it is in constant conflict with the ego and the superego, both of which originate from it during the course of development. Freud used the German word das Es (the it) in 1923 in his book Das Ich und das Es, translated as The Ego and the Id (Standard Edition, XIX, pp. 12-66, at p. 23), where he revealed that he borrowed the term from the German psychiatrist Georg Groddeck (1866-1934) but attributed it ultimately to the German philosopher Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche (1844-1900), and Freud's translator James Strachey (1887-1967) chose the word id, imbuing it with an aura of obscurity and technicality that the original German word lacks. The id is insulated from the preconscious and consciousness by censorship, but it is not synonymous with the unconscious, as stated in many elementary expositions of Freud's theory, because the repressive functions of the ego and many of the functions of the superego are also unconscious. The functions of the id are governed by the primary process. \[From Latin id it]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]