## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Impedance describes the combined effect of resistance and reactance in an electrical circuit. Resistance is the hindrance of an electrical current by a resistor (an electrical component that regulates the flow of an electrical current). Reactance is the hindrance of a change within an electrical current by an inductor (an electrical component that stores energy in the form of a magnetic field) or capacitor (an electrical component that stores electrical energy in an electric field).
- Without impedance, the capacitors that control and regulate the electrical flow that power electronic devices or building electrical systems would not be able to function properly, resulting in fried electrical circuits.
## Source[^2]
- (1) (symbol: $Z$ ; unit: ohm) A measure of the response of an electric circuit to an alternating current. The current is opposed by the capacitance and inductance of the circuit in addition to the resistance. The total opposition to current flow is the impedance, which is given by the ratio of the voltage to the current in the circuit.
- The alternating current is given by$$I = I _ {0} \cos \omega t$$where $I_{0}$ is the peak current and $\omega$ is the angular frequency. When reactance, due to the capacitance and inductance, is present in a circuit, the voltage will be out of phase with the current and is given by$$V = V _ {0} \cos (\omega t + \phi)$$where $\phi$ is the phase angle. In a circuit containing resistance, $R$, capacitance, $C$, and inductance, $L$, the voltage is given by$$V _ {0} \cos (\omega t + \theta) = I R + L \left(\frac {\mathrm {d} I}{\mathrm {d} t}\right) + \frac {1}{C} \int I \mathrm {d} t$$Solving this equation shows that the current is equal to$$I = \frac {V _ {0} \cos (\omega t + \phi)}{\sqrt {\left[ R ^ {2} + \left(\omega^ {2} L ^ {2} - \frac {1}{\omega^ {2} C ^ {2}}\right) \right]}}$$Since the impedance is the ratio of current to voltage then$$\begin{array}{l} Z &= \sqrt {\left[ R ^ {2} + \left(\omega^ {2} L ^ {2} - \frac {1}{\omega^ {2} C ^ {2}}\right) \right]} \\ &= \sqrt {\left[ R ^ {2} + X ^ {2} \right]} \\ \end{array}$$where $X$ is the reactance. $Z$ is thus a complex quantity whose magnitude or modulus $|Z|$ is equal to the vector sum of $R$ and $X$. The complex impedance can thus be given by$$Z = R + j X$$where $j$ is equal to $\sqrt{-1}$. The real part, the resistance, represents a loss of power due to dissipation. The imaginary part, the reactance, indicates the phase difference between the voltage and current (see $j$). It is either positive or negative depending on whether the current lags or leads the voltage, respectively. In a circuit containing only resistance, or in a resonant circuit, the current and voltage are in phase and $Z$ is purely resistive. In a circuit containing only reactance the current and voltage are out of phase and $Z$ is purely imaginary, i.e. there is no dissipation in the circuit.
- The complex impedance is the ratio of the complex voltage to the complex current, given respectively as$$\begin{array}{l} V = V _ {0} \exp [ j (\omega t + \phi) ] \\ I = I _ {0} \exp (\mathrm {j} \omega t) \\ \end{array}$$Hence the complex impedance can be expressed as$$\begin{align}\mathbf{Z} &= |Z|\exp(\mathrm{j}\phi) \\ \mathbf{Z} &= |Z|(\cos\phi + \mathrm{j}\sin\phi)\end{align}$$
- (2) See IMPEIOR.
- http://hyperphysics.phy-astr.gsu.edu/hbase/electric/imped.html
	- An introduction to impedance, from Georgia State University
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Glossary by Capterra]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]