## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (IT) A direct tax on an individual's income. In general, individuals can earn income without paying tax up to a threshold, with subsequent income giving rise to tax liabilities, usually at increasing rates as income increases (progressive taxation).
- In UK tax legislation income is not defined; rather, amounts received are classified under seven headings according to their source: (i) income from employment; (ii) income from trading; (iii) pensions income; (iv) savings and investment income; (v) income from social security payments; (vi) income from property; (vii) other miscellaneous income. In order to be potentially liable to income tax an amount received must fall under one of these headings. There are some specific occasions when the legislation requires capital receipts to be treated as income for taxation purposes, e.g. when a landlord receives a lump sum on the granting of a lease. In the UK the importance of the distinction between income and capital has diminished since income and capital gains are now charged at essentially the same rate. The tax is calculated on the taxpayer's taxable income, i.e. gross income less any income tax allowances and deductions. If the allowances and deductions exceed the gross income in a fiscal year, no income tax is payable. In the UK, there are currently three tax-rate bands for earned income: a basic rate of income tax of $20 \%$ on taxable earnings up to $£ 32,000$; a higher rate of income tax of $40 \%$ on taxable earnings over £32,000; and an additional rate of $45 \%$ on taxable earnings over $£ 150,000$ (2015-16 figures). The starting rate of $10 \%$ was abolished from April 2008 for earned income. See also PAYE.
## Source[^2]
- A tax on income. An individual's taxable income is calculated after deducting various allowances, in respect of assorted items which may include charitable donations, responsibility for dependants, age allowances, medical insurance, and superannuation contributions. Income for tax purposes may include or exclude imputed items such as the value of the services of owner-occupied houses. Capital gains may be included as income, excluded, or taxed separately from income. Income tax may be collected from individuals in arrears, or by deduction at source through pay-as-you-earn in the UK, or a withholding tax on incomes from employment and payment of dividends net of tax by companies in the US. Most countries have progressive income tax systems for which the average rate of tax rises with income. See also CORPORATE INCOME TAX; NEGATIVE INCOME TAX.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]