## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A number used to represent the changes in a set of values between a base year and the present. If the index reflects fluctuations in a single variable, such as the price of a commodity, the index number can be calculated using the formula: $$100\left(p_{n} / p_{0}\right),$$
- where $p_{0}$ represents the price in the base year and $p_{n}$ represents the price in the current year. In practice many indices reflect variations in a combination of variables, such as the raw materials required to manufacture a product. In this situation it is necessary to produce an index that weights the important variables, e.g. labor costs. These are known as weighted aggregate indices. If both costs and quantities have varied over a period, it is further necessary to find a way of using the same quantities for the numerator and denominator of the index. When the calculation uses base-year quantities as the fixed point, the resultant index is a base-weighted (or Laspeyres') index, i.e.: $$\begin{align}\text{100(total cost of base year quantities at} \\ \text{current prices/total cost of base year} \\ \text{quantities at base year prices),}\end{align}$$ or $$100\left(\sum p_{n} q_{0} / \sum p_{0} q_{0}\right),$$where $p$ represents the price and $q$ represents the quantity. When the calculation uses current year quantities, it is known as a current-weighted (or Paasche's) index, i.e.: $$\begin{align} \text{100(total cost of current quantities at} \\ \text{current prices/total cost of base year} \\ \text{quantities at current prices),}\end{align}$$or$$100\left(\sum p_{n} q_{\mathrm{n}} / \sum p_{0} q_{n}\right).$$
## Source[^2]
- A number showing the size of some variable, relative to a given base. The base may be assigned any value, but is usually chosen to be either 1 or 100 . For a time series, the base may be the value at a given date; for cross-section data, it may be some chosen instance, or the mean of the items covered. Where an index number describes a constructed variable, such as 'the price level', which is an average of prices, or gross domestic product, which is an aggregate of many different sectors, it is a weighted average of the various components. A base-weighted or Laspeyres index uses as weights the relative sizes of the different items at the base period; a current-weighted or Paasche index uses as weights the relative sizes of the component items during the current period.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]