## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. invasion of the body by harmful organisms (pathogens), such as bacteria, fungi, protozoa, rickettsiae, or viruses. The infective agent may be transmitted by a patient or carrier in airborne droplets expelled during coughing and sneezing or by direct contact, such as kissing or sexual intercourse (see SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE); by animal or insect vectors; by ingestion of contaminated food or drink; or from an infected mother to the fetus during pregnancy or birth. Pathogenic organisms present in soil, organisms from animal intermediate hosts, or those living as commensals on the body can also cause infections. Organisms may invade via a wound or bite or through mucous membranes. After an incubation period symptoms appear, usually consisting of either localized inflammation and pain or more remote effects. Treatment with antibiotics is usually effective against most infections, but there are few specific treatments for many of the common viral infections, including the common cold (see ANTIVIRAL DRUG; INTERFERON).
## Source[^2]
- The invasion of any living organism by disease-causing microorganisms (see PATHOGEN), which proceed to establish themselves, multiply, and produce various symptoms in their host. Pathogens may invade via a wound or (in animals) through the mucous membranes lining the alimentary, respiratory, and reproductive tracts, and may be transmitted by an infected individual, a carrier, or an arthropod vector. Symptoms in animals appear after an initial symptomless incubation period and typically consist of localized inflammation, often with pain and fever. Infections are combated by the body's natural defences (see IMMUNITY). Treatment with drugs (see ANTIBIOTICS; ANTISEPTIC) is effective against most bacterial, fungal, and protist infections; some viral infections respond to antiviral drugs. See also IMMUNIZATION.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]