## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (1) The charge made for borrowing a sum of money. The interest rate is the charge made, expressed as a percentage of the total sum loaned, for a stated period of time (usually one year). Thus, a rate of interest of $15 \%$ per annum means that for every $£ 100$ borrowed for one year, the borrower has to pay a charge of $£ 15$, or a charge in proportion for longer or shorter periods. In simple interest, the charge is calculated on the sum loaned only, thus $I=P r t$, where $I$ is the interest, $P$ is the principal sum, $r$ is the rate of interest, and $t$ is the period. In compound interest, the charge is calculated on the sum loaned plus any interest that has accrued in previous periods. In this case $I=P\left[(1+r)^{n}-1\right]$, where $n$ is the number of periods for which interest is separately calculated. Thus, if $£ 500$ is loaned for two years at a rate of $12 \%$ per annum, compounded quarterly, the value of $n$ will be $4 \times 2=8$ and the value of $r$ will be $12 / 4=3 \%$. Thus, $I=500\left[(1.03)^{8}-\right.$ $1]=\mathfrak{£} 133.38$, whereas on a simple-interest basis it would be only $£ 120$. These calculations of interest apply equally to deposits that attract income in the form of interest.
- In general, rates of interest depend on the money supply, the demand for loans, government policy, the risk of nonrepayment as assessed by the lender, the period of the loan, and relative levels of foreign-exchange rates into other currencies. 
- (2) A share of ownership. See CONTROLLING INTEREST; MINORITY INTEREST; PARTICIPATING INTEREST.
## Source[^2]
- Payment for a loan additional to repayment of the amount borrowed. The rate of interest is the extra payment per unit of the loan, typically calculated as an annual rate. An interest-bearing security yields interest to the holder; some interest-bearing loans are used as money. Interest payments are made by borrowers to lenders. Simple interest means that, where interest is not actually paid out but is added to the principal of a loan each period, the amount added is the same each period. Compound interest means that, again where interest is not paid out to the lender, the amount to be added to the loan each period is the same percentage of the debt already accumulated: compound interest thus includes interest on past interest. Interest rates can be found for loans of any duration, from those repayable on demand to perpetuities. Rates on loans of under five years are usually termed short-term rates, rates on loans from 5 to 15 years' maturity as medium-term, and rates on loans for over 15 years as long-term rates; but usage is not uniform. Interest rates are commonly quoted in nominal terms. The real interest rate is the nominal interest rate for any period, corrected for the effects of inflation. See also COMPOUND INTEREST; RATE OF INTEREST; SIMPLE INTEREST.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]