## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The coordination of memory, learning, and reasoning in animals. Intelligence has also been defined as the ability of an animal to form associative links between events or objects of which it has had no previous experience (see INSIGHT LEARNING). In humans intelligence can be expressed as an intelligence quotient (IQ): the mental age of the subject (as measured by standard tests) divided by his or her real age $\times 100$. Psychologists have identified different types of intelligence, such as analytical intelligence, creative intelligence, and practical intelligence. Certainly, a high IQ score does not necessarily reflect prowess in other areas such as creativity, empathy, or sociability.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. Cognitive ability. In a symposium published in the Journal of Educational Psychology in 1921, fourteen of the world's leading authorities suggested definitions of intelligence, which included 'the ability to carry on abstract thinking' (Lewis Madison Terman, 1877-1956); 'the power of good responses from the point of view of truth or fact' (Edward Lee Thorndike, 1874-1949); and 'the capacity to inhibit an instinctive adjustment, the capacity to redefine the inhibited instinctive adjustment in the light of imaginally experienced trial and error, and the volitional capacity to realize the modified instinctive adjustment into overt behavior to the advantage of the individual as a social animal' (Louis Leon Thurstone, 1887-1955). Since then, one of the most influential definitions was the one put forward in 1944 by the Romanian-born US psychologist David Wechsler (1896-1981): 'the aggregate or global capacity of the individual to act purposefully, to think rationally, and to deal effectively with his environment.' However, just as a triangle is defined simply as a plane figure with three angles and three sides, ignoring its many other interesting and important but non-defining properties, good lexicographic practice suggests that it may be best to define intelligence simply as cognitive ability. Factor-analytic studies by the US psychologist Robert J(effrey) Sternberg (born 1949) and others have suggested that the major components of intelligence as it is conceived by experts and lay people are verbal intelligence, problem solving, and practical intelligence; but during the 1990s some authorities began to consider emotional intelligence as another form of intelligence. The standard index of intelligence is the IQ score. See also A/S ratio, CRYSTALLIZED INTELLIGENCE, EMOTIONAL INTELLIGENCE, ENCEPHALIZATION QUOTIENT, FLUID INTELLIGENCE, G, GUILFORD'S CUBE, INSPECTION TIME, INTELLECTUAL DISABILITY, INTELLIGENCE TEST, MULTIPLE INTELLIGENCES, NERVE CONDUCTION VELOCITY, N140, PRIMARY MENTAL ABILITIES, PROCESSING SPEED, PROGRESSION INDEX, P200, SOCIAL INTELLIGENCE, STRING LENGTH, TRIARCHIC THEORY OF INTELLIGENCE. \[From Latin intelligere to understand, from inter between + legere to choose]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]