## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. any of a family of proteins that control some aspects of haemopoiesis and the immune response (see CYTOKINES). Many interleukins are currently characterized. Interleukin 1 (IL-1) is an inflammatory mediator. Interleukin 2 (IL-2) stimulates T lymphocytes to become natural killer cells, active against cancer cells, and is being investigated for the treatment of cancer: recombinant interleukin 2 (aldesleukin, Proleukin), administered by subcutaneous injection, can be of benefit in the treatment of renal cell carcinoma.
## Source[^2]
- Any of numerous cytokines that are produced by leucocytes and other cell types and which perform a range of regulatory functions for cells of the immune system, including cell differentiation, proliferation, maturation, migration, adhesion, and death. Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is secreted by antigen-activated macrophages and activates liver cells to produce acute-phase proteins. It has a pro-inflammatory effect. Interleukin-2 (IL-2) stimulates the proliferation of T cells, which also secrete it, and also enhances the activity of B cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and macrophages, promoting cytotoxicity, interferon secretion, and antibody production. Interleukin-3 is a growth factor for lymphoid and myeloid cells, and interleukin-4 induces T cells and B cells to proliferate and the latter to produce antibodies. Interleukin-6 is transiently produced at sites of inflammation and in response to infection, and stimulates the acute-phase response, the production of blood cells (haemopoiesis), and other immune responses. Over 30 interleukins are now known to exist, and some are manufactured using recombinant DNA technology, for use as therapeutic agents.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]