## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. A term introduced in DSM-5 to refer to what was formerly called mental retardation, a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by arrested or incomplete mental development, with onset before the age of 18 , including deficits in both intellectual and adaptive functioning. Diagnosis requires three criteria to be met: deficits in reasoning, problem solving, abstract thinking, or other intellectual functioning, confirmed by clinical assessment and intelligence testing (specifically, IQ below 70); failure to meet developmental standards of independence and social responsibility in such areas as interpersonal communication, self-care, home living, social skills, use of public amenities, self-direction, scholastic or academic performance, work, leisure, health, or safety; and onset of intellectual and adaptive deficits during the developmental period (before the age of 18). According to DSM-5, overall population prevalence is about 1 per cent. According to the World Health Organization, an IQ between 50 and 70 is approximately indicative of mild mental intellectual disability, 35-50 moderate intellectual disability, 20-35 severe intellectual disability, and below 20 profound intellectual disability. Also called intellectual developmental disorder. See cerebral gigantism, CEREBRAL PALSY, CREtinISM, CRI DU CHAT, Down's SYndROME, FOetal ALCOHOL SYNDROME, FRAGILE X SYNDROME, HURLER's SYNDROME, IDIOT SAVANT, Klinefelter's syndrome, Lesch-Nyhan syndrome, macrocEphaly, MICROCEPHALY, MILD MENTAL RETARDATION, MODERATE MENTAL RETARDATION, PHENYLKETONURIA, PROFOUND MENTAL RETARDATION, SEVERE MENTAL RETARDATION, TAY-SAChS DISEASE, Williams SYNDROME, ZOMBIE (2). See also AGENESIS OF THE CORPUS CALLOSUM, SAVANT. Compare BORDERLINE INTELLIGENCE. ID abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]