## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. a substance that is produced by cells infected with a virus and has the ability to inhibit viral growth (see CYTOKINES). Interferon is active against many different viruses, but particular interferons are effective only in the species that produces them. There are three types of human interferon: alpha (from white blood cells), beta (from fibroblasts), and gamma (from lymphocytes).
- Human interferon can be produced in bacterial host cells by genetic engineering for clinical use. Interferon alfa is used in treating hepatitis B and C and certain lymphomas and other cancers, peginterferon alfa is used for hepatitis B and C, and interferon beta for multiple sclerosis. Sideeffects, including flulike symptoms, lethargy, and depression, may be severe.
## Source[^2]
- (IFN) Any of a number of proteins (see CYTOKINE) that increase the resistance of cells to attack by viruses. In mammals, 10 species of interferons have been discovered, falling into three type classes: type I includes $\alpha$-interferons from white blood cells and $\beta$-interferons from connective tissue fibroblasts; type II consists solely of $\gamma$-interferon from T cells and natural killer cells (NK cells); and type III comprises the $\lambda$-interferons (also known as interleukins 28A, 28B, and 29). $\alpha$- and $\beta$-interferons induce intrinsic resistance to viral infection in all cells by triggering the expression of genes that encode antiviral proteins. Moreover, they activate NK cells, which selectively kill virus-infected cells, and promote synthesis of MHC class I proteins by all cell types, thereby protecting uninfected cells from attack by the NK cells. $\gamma$-interferon is distinct from the other two classes in that it is not produced directly as a result of virus infection. Its actions include macrophage activation, increasing the expression of MHC molecules, and suppression of $\mathrm{T}_{\mathrm{H}} 2$ helper T cells. It is produced by $\mathrm{T}_{\mathrm{H}} 1$ cells and cytotoxic T cells. Interferons are produced commercially for therapeutic purposes using genetically engineered bacteria or human tissue culture. However, interferons also play a role in the routine maintenance of cells; this complicates treatment, which can lead to unwanted side effects.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]