## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A region in the earth's atmosphere that has a high concentration of ions and free electrons and extends from about $50~\mathrm{km}$ to over $1000~\mathrm{km}$ in altitude. The ionosphere disturbs the propagation of radiowaves through it by reflecting and attenuating them. It does however allow long-distance radio transmission at frequencies up to about 30 megahertz by successive reflections between it and points on the earth's surface.
- The ionosphere consists of several distinct layers or regions that can change in thickness between day and night and also show seasonal and latitude variations. The D-layer, extending from about 60 to $90~\mathrm{km}$, has a relatively low concentration of electrons and reflects low-frequency radiowaves. The E-layer extends from about 90 to $120~\mathrm{km}$, has a higher concentration of electrons than the D-layer, and reflects medium-frequency radiowaves.
- The highest layers are the $\mathbf{F}_1$-layer, which is a daytime feature centered on about $150~\mathrm{km}$, and the $\mathbf{F}_2$-layer, which is centred on about $300~\mathrm{km}$. These layers, sometimes known collectively as the Appleton layer, contain the highest concentration of free electrons and reflect high-frequency radiowaves. At night the D- and E-layers become relatively inactive since there is no solar radiation to regenerate ion pairs lost by recombination. The F-layers have a lower density and hence a lower recombination rate of ions. The $\mathbf{F}_2$-layer can be used for radio transmission at all times. It is thus the most useful region for long-range radio communication. There is a well-marked ionization maximum for the F-layers, the region above the maximum being the topside ionosphere.
- Waves with wavelengths between about 6 millimeters and 20 meters lie within the radio window and are not reflected by the ionosphere but pass straight through it. High-frequency television transmissions fall within this band and require communications satellites, usually in geostationary earth orbit, in order to achieve long-distance television links. Radioastronomy is restricted to wavelengths within the radio window.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]