## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (JGA) a microscopic structure within the kidney that is important in regulating blood pressure, body fluid, and electrolytes. It is situated in each nephron, between the afferent arteriole of the glomerulus and the returning distal convoluted tubule of the same nephron. The JGA consists of specialized cells within the distal tubule (the macula densa), which detect the amount of sodium chloride passing through the tubule and can secrete locally acting vasoconstrictor substances that act on the associated afferent arteriole to induce a reduction in filtration pressure (tubuloglomerular feedback). Modified cells within the afferent arterioles secrete renin in response to a fall in perfusion pressure or feedback from the macula densa and form a central role in the reninangiotensin-aldosterone axis. Mesangial cells support and connect the macula densa and the specialized cells in the afferent arteriole and have sympathetic innervation, facilitating the renin response to sympathetic nervous stimulation.
## Source[^2]
- (JGA) A region of tissue found in each nephron in the kidney that is important is regulating blood pressure and body fluid and electrolytes. It is located where the distal convoluted tubule passes close to the afferent arteriole supplying the Bowman's capsule, near to the glomerulus, and contains two types of specialized cells. Large smooth muscle cells in the wall of the afferent arteriole form the juxtaglomerular cells, or granular cells; these contain granules of the proteolytic enzyme renin, which are released when the juxtaglomerular cells detect decreased blood pressure in the arteriole. The JGA also includes chemoreceptor cells of the adjacent region of the distal tubule, which form a tightly packed array called the macula densa. This detects low concentrations of sodium ions in the filtrate inside the tubule (indicative of reduced plasma sodium levels or reduced glomerular filtration rate) and triggers release of renin from the juxtaglomerular cells. Release of renin into the bloodstream leads to increased levels of angiotensins, which raise blood pressure, stimulate thirst, and also stimulate the secretion of aldosterone from the adrenal cortex and antidiuretic hormone from the posterior pituitary. Aldosterone promotes reabsorption of sodium ions from the distal tubule, and antidiuretic hormone promotes water reabsorption. The net effect is to raise blood pressure, restore blood volume, and increase the glomerular filtration rate.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]