## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. An influential theory of deviance (1), according to which a label attached to a person can function as a self-fulfilling prophecy, profoundly influencing that person's behavior. Classical labelling theory was first proposed by the US sociologist Edwin (McCarty) Lemert (1912-96) in a book entitled Social Pathology: A Systematic Approach to the Theory of Psychopathic Behavior (1951) and developed further by the US sociologist Thomas J(oel) Scheff (born 1929) in his book Being Mentally Ill (1966). The theory distinguishes between primary deviance, such as the hallucinations and thought disorder that are usually taken as symptoms of schizophrenia, and those same experiences in a person who is aware of having been labelled as mentally ill. According to the theory, primary deviance is usually relatively brief and insignificant, but a person who becomes aware of the label begins to play the role of a mentally ill person, at first inadvertently and later often involuntarily, and this can have a profound influence. This theory arose from a rejection of the classic interpretation of deviance as behavior violating an objective social norm. In labelling theory, deviance is not an attribute of a person or of behavior but of the categorization or naming of behavior by psychiatrists, courts, police, family members, and others. This is clear in the case of criminal deviance, because what is defined as criminal, and therefore who is labelled as a criminal, varies from one society to another and, even within a society, from one time to another. US labeling theory. See also Pygmalion EFFECT. \[From Old French label a tag, cognate with German Lappen a flap]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]