## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A method of evaluating maxima and minima of a function $f$, where one or more constraints $g_i = 0$ have to be satisfied. A new function is constructed as $$L = f + \lambda_1g_1 + \lambda_2g_2 + \cdots + \lambda_ng_n.$$
- Then the partial derivatives of $L$ with respect to the original variables and each $\lambda_i$ are taken, and the stationary points found by solving the set of simultaneous equations obtained by setting each derivative to zero.
- For example, to maximize $f(x, y) = 3x + 4y$ subject to $g(x,y) = x^2+y^2-1=0$, we define $$L(x,y,\lambda) = 3x + 4y + \lambda(x^2+y^2-1),$$and the equations $$\begin{align}&0 = \frac{\partial L}{\partial x}=3+2\lambda x \\&0 = \frac{\partial L}{\partial y} = 4 + 2\lambda y \\ &0 = \frac{\partial L}{\partial \lambda} = x^2+y^2-1\end{align}$$have solutions $(x, y)$ = $(3/5, 4/5)$, a maximum, and $(x,y) = (-3/5, -4/5)$, a minimum.
## Source[^2]
- Lagrange multiplier A variable introduced to solve a problem involving constrained optimization. Suppose that the function $f(x, y)$ has to be maximized by choice of $x$ and $y$ subject to the constraint that $g(x, y) \leq k$. The solution can be found by constructing the Lagrangean function$$L(x, y, \lambda)=f(x, y)+\lambda[k-g(x, y)]$$where $\lambda$ is the Lagrange multiplier. Let $f_{x}$ denote $\partial f(x, y) / \partial x$, etc. The optimal values of $x, y$, and $\lambda$ solve the necessary conditions$$L_{x} \equiv f_{x}-\lambda g_{x}=0, L_{y} \equiv f_{y}-\lambda g_{y}=0, \lambda[k-g(x, y)]=0, \text { and } \lambda \geq 0$$If the constraint is not binding, $\lambda=0$ and the maximum occurs where $f_{x}=f_{y}=0$. If the constraint is binding, $\lambda>0$ and the optimum is found by solving the three equations $L_{x}=0, L_{y}=0$, and $g(x, y)-k=0$. The Lagrange multiplier, $\lambda$, measures the increase in the objective function $(f(x, y))$ that is obtained through a marginal relaxation in the constraint (an increase in $k$ ). For this reason, the Lagrange multiplier is often termed a shadow price. For example, if $f(x, y)$ is a utility function, which is maximized subject to the constraint that total spending on $x$ and $y$ is less than or equal to income, $k$, then $\lambda$ measures the marginal utility of income$\textemdash$the additional utility provided by one more unit of income.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Mathematics 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]