## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A light source with special properties (principally spectral purity, narrow output beam, and ease of modulation) that make it particularly useful in optical storage devices and some kinds of printer, and also in fibre optics communication systems.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation: a laser is a device that emits light through such a process; it can be used to operate on small areas of abnormality without damaging the delicate surrounding tissues. For example, lasers are used to unblock coronary arteries narrowed by atheroma and to remove certain types of birthmark (see NAEVUS). In ophthalmology different types of laser are used for operations on the cornea (see EXCIMER LASER), lens (see FEMTOSECOND LASER), lens capsule (see YAG LASER), and retina (see ARGON LASER; DIODE LASER) and for glaucoma (see TRABECULOPLASTY). Lasers are also used in the treatment of endometrial ablation and large fibroids (the Nd:YAG laser), cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, and varicose veins (endovenous laser treatment).
## Source[^3]
- Acronym for light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. A source of monochromatic coherent radiation in the visible, ultraviolet, or infrared regions of the electromagnetic spectrum.
- In an atom, an electron can jump from one allowed energy level $E_{2}$ to an empty level $E_{1}$, accompanied by the absorption or emission of a photon of electromagnetic radiation of the appropriate wavelength, $\lambda$, given by Planck's law:$$\left| E _ {2} - E _ {1} \right| = h \nu = \frac {h c}{\lambda}$$If $E_{2}$ exceeds $E_{1}$, then emission of radiation occurs. Spontaneous emission occurs when an electron in the atom changes energy level without any specific external stimulus. Stimulated emission occurs in response to excitation by a photon of the same energy as the energy difference, $E_{2} - E_{1}$. The incident and emitted photons are both in phase: coherent radiation. Laser action is based on the process of stimulated emission. For continued emission of radiation, the number of electrons in the higher energy level $E_{2}$ must be greater than the number in the lower level $E_{1}$. This state is known as population inversion. Population inversion is a nonequilibrium state, and internal relaxation processes will tend to restore the electron distribution to the thermal equilibrium state. External power must therefore be applied to maintain the inverted population in a laser; for example, applied electromagnetic radiation of a shorter wavelength can excite other electrons into a third energy level above $E_{2}$, and this level is then the source of electrons for $E_{2}$. For continued stimulated emission, photons of the appropriate wavelength must continually pass through the laser medium. This can be achieved by placing two mirrors, facing each other at each end of the laser region, the distance between them being a whole number of wavelengths: this is a Fabry-Perot cavity, and is resonant at the laser wavelength. Spontaneous and stimulated photons then travel back and forth between the mirrors, stimulating further emission of photons, and building up a high intensity of light. If one of the mirrors is only partly reflecting, this light can be emitted in the form of a high-intensity monochromatic coherent beam or pulse.
- Laser action can take place in solid, liquid, and gaseous media. The ruby laser was the first solid laser; population inversion was achieved by light excitation. Gas lasers are excited by a continual electric discharge (see GAS DISCHARGE TUBE); population inversion is a result of collisions between the gas particles and high-energy ions and electrons excited by the high voltage, creating the excited glow. Semiconductor lasers are made using forward-biased p-n junctions, the injection of carriers across the junction providing the inverted population.
- See also SEMICONDUCTOR LASER; MASER.
- http://www.optique-ingenieur.org/en/courses/OPI_ang_M01_C01/co/OPI_ang_M01_C01_web_1
	- An introductory lesson on lasers
	- #comment Requested URL not found on server
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]