## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The lifetime pattern of income and consumption. The assumed pattern is that children are supported by their parents, young adults start with low incomes, which rise with age until some point in middle age, after which they fall, possibly quite sharply, on retirement. Little earned income is usually received after retirement. Consumption is generally highest in the early years of adult life when household goods have to be bought and children reared. This results in a pattern of saving, which is generally small in early adult life, large for a period after the children are grown, and negative during retirement. Household assets thus tend to rise before retirement and fall afterwards. Whether assets actually start and finish at zero depends on social habits as regards inheritance: most people leave positive assets at death, if only because they do not know when this will occur. The life-cycle model of savings suggests that the distribution of assets will be uneven between households even if their lifetime incomes and social attitudes are the same.
## Source[^2]
- The complete sequence of events undergone by organisms of a particular species from the fusion of gametes in one generation to the same stage in the following generation. In most animals gametes are formed by meiosis of germ cells in the reproductive organs of the parents. The zygote, formed by the fusion of two gametes, eventually develops into an organism essentially similar to the parents. In plants, however, the products of meiosis are spores, which develop into plants (the gametophyte generation) often very different in form from the spore-forming (sporophyte) generation. The sporophyte generation is restored when gametes, formed by the gametophyte generation, fuse. See alternation of GENERATIONS.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]