## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. one of a group of compounds, found in blood plasma and lymph, each consisting of a protein (see APOLIPOPROTEIN) combined with a lipid (which may be cholesterol, a triglyceride, or a phospholipid). Lipoproteins are important for the transport of lipids in the blood and lymph (see also LIPOPROTEIN LIPASE). See CHYLOMICRON; HIGH-DENSITY LIPOPROTEIN; LOW-DENSITY LIPOPROTEIN; VERY LOW-DENSITY LIPOPROTEIN. See also HYPERLIPIDAEMIA.
## Source[^2]
- One of a group of compounds consisting of a lipid combined with a protein. Lipoproteins are the main structural materials of the membranes of cells and cell organelles. They also occur in blood and lymph, being the form in which lipids are transported in these media. Cholesterol is transported in the bloodstream mainly in the form of low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) and is removed by means of LDL receptors in cell membranes; the LDLs are bound to the receptors, which are then taken into the cells. LDLs comprise about $50 \%$ cholesterol, $25 \%$ protein, and $25 \%$ lipids. Lack of LDL receptors, occurring as a genetic defect in some individuals, is a cause of high levels of cholesterol in the blood, predisposing to atherosclerosis. Plasma levels of LDL cholesterol can be reduced by dieting and exercise and/or by drugs (such as statins). Very low-density lipoproteins (VLDLs) are formed in the liver and consist largely of triglycerides ($94 \%$), with just $2 \%$ protein and $3 \%$ cholesterol. They are linked to a high risk of cardiovascular disease. High-density lipoproteins (HDLs) transport cholesterol from tissues to the liver and contain about $50 \%$ protein, $35 \%$ lipids, and $15 \%$ cholesterol. These, the so-called 'good' lipoproteins, effectively 'scavenge' cholesterol, and their concentration in blood is raised by exercise. A high ratio of LDLs to HDLs in the blood is associated with an increased risk of atherosclerosis and heart disease. See also CHYLOMICRON.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]