## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A microscopic spherical membrane-enclosed vesicle or sac (20–30 nm in diameter) made artificially in the laboratory by the addition of an aqueous solution to a phospholipid gel. The membrane resembles a cell membrane and the whole vesicle is similar to a cell organelle. Liposomes can be incorporated into living cells and are used to transport relatively toxic drugs into diseased cells, where they can exert their maximum effects. For example, liposomes containing the drug methotrexate, used in the treatment of cancer, can be injected into the patient’s blood. The cancerous organ is heated to a temperature higher than body temperature, so that when the liposome passes through its blood vessels, the membrane melts and the drug is released. Liposomes can also be used as vectors in the transfection of cells with foreign DNA or RNA. The study of the behavior of liposome membranes is used in research into membrane function, particularly to observe the behavior of membranes during anaesthesia with respect to permeability changes.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. a microscopic spherical membrane-enclosed vesicle or sac (2030 nm in diameter) made artificially in the laboratory by the addition of an aqueous solution to a phospholipid gel. The membrane resembles a cell membrane and the whole vesicle is similar to a cell organelle. Liposomes can be incorporated into living cells and may be used to transport relatively toxic drugs into cancer cells, where they can exert their maximum effects. The cancerous organ is at a higher temperature than normal body temperature, so that when the liposome passes through its blood vessels the membrane melts and the drug (e.g. doxorubicin) is released. Liposomes are also undergoing clinical trials as vehicles in gene therapy for cystic fibrosis.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]