## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A rotatable storage medium usually in the form of a circular nonmagnetic rigid plate coated on both sides with magnetic material, followed by some form of lubricating layer(s). The disks themselves (the substrate) are made of aluminium alloy or of some glass-ceramic composite material. The magnetic coating on early disks was a ferric oxide in a binder. Current disks have a thin metallic film, such as cobalt/nickel or cobalt/chrome, which is created by vacuum deposition (i.e. sputtering). The lubricating layer is a coat of carbon a few angstroms thick, sometimes followed by a proprietary lubricant. Flexible magnetic disks (i.e. floppy disks) with oxide coating provide low-cost lightweight media, but are now falling into disuse.
- Data is stored on and retrieved from magnetic disks by means of a disk drive. See also ACCESS TIME, FIXED DISK DRIVE, MEMORY HIERARCHY, WINCHESTER TECHNOLOGY.
## Source[^2]
- A computer storage medium usually in the form of a rigid circular aluminium plate with a metallic magnetic coating on both sides; this form is known as a hard disk. The flexible form, known as a floppy disk, has a magnetic coating of ferric oxide on both sides of a polyester base. Hard disks have a larger storage capacity than floppy disks; the latter provide a low-cost lightweight storage medium. In both forms data is stored in and retrieved from a set of concentric tracks in the magnetic coating. This is achieved by means of a disk drive, in which one or more disks may be rapidly rotated. Read-write heads in the disk drive are moved radially over each disk surface so that data may be written to (i.e. stored in) or read from the required track. Specific storage locations in the track may be accessed directly and in any order. Unlike floppy disks, hard disks are usually permanently mounted within the disk drive. See also MOVING MAGNETIC SURFACE MEMORY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]