## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (1) (filtering) A logical operation carried out on a byte, word, or field of data in order to modify or identify a part of it. A bit pattern-the same length as the item to be masked$\textemdash$is generated and stored in a register as a mask. By use of the appropriate operation, e.g. subtract, logical AND, logical OR, the mask can be used to suppress bits in the data, or set them to zero, etc. The process is used for purposes such as identifying the presence of high-priority bits in a status byte or resetting interrupts. 
- (2) The use of a chemical shield, the mask, to determine the pattern of interconnects in an integrated circuit. Read-only memories (ROMs) and programmable logic arrays (PLAs) are customized for their particular applications by the masking process, unless they are field-programmable. See also PROGRAMMABLE DEVICES. 
- (3) A technique used in software for manipulating graphic images. An area of the image may be defined by a mark based on color, brightness, or some other parameter. The mask can then be used to allow separation of parts of the image.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. The blocking or suppression of the perception of a stimulus, often called the test stimulus, by the presentation of another stimulus, called the masking stimulus. Complete masking occurs when the test stimulus is not perceived, and partial masking occurs when its absolute threshold is raised or its perceived intensity is reduced by the masking stimulus. The masking effect arises from swamping of the neural activity evoked by the test stimulus and/or suppression of the neural activity that test stimulus would have evoked if presented alone. See also AUDITORY MASKING, BACKWARD MASKING, BINAURAL UNMASKING, BRIGHTNESS MASKING, CENTRAL MASKING, CRITICAL BAND, DICHOPTIC MASKING, INSPECTION TIME, METACONTRAST, PARACONTRAST, PATTERN MASKING, PERKY PHENOMENON, SUBLIMINAL PERCEPTION, VISUAL MASKING.
## Source[^3]
- An effect that occurs when, for example, two sine waves are heard together and it becomes difficult or impossible to perceive one due to the presence of the other. In such a case the tone that causes the masking is known as the masker and the tone that is masked is known as the maskee. While these tones could be individual sine waves, they can also be individual frequency components of a periodic nonsinusoidal signal, such as a sustained sung vowel or a note played on a musical instrument, when high-level frequency components can mask lower-level frequency components either in that note or another note. The extent to which masking occurs depends on the frequencies of the masker and maskee and their amplitudes. One particular feature of the masking phenomenon is that the masking effect is considerably greater for maskees that are above (rather than below) the frequency of the masker. This effect is often referred to as the upward spread of masking, or low masks high.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]