## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (climacteric) $n$. the time in a woman's life when the ovaries cease to produce an egg cell every four weeks: menstruation ceases and the woman is no longer able to bear children. The menopause can occur at any age between the middle thirties and the middle fifties, most commonly between 45 and 55 (the median age is 51). Natural menopause can only be established in retrospect after 12 consecutive months of amenorrhoea. Around the time of the menopause (the perimenopause) there are marked changes in the menstrual cycle. Menstruation may decrease gradually in successive periods or the intervals between the periods may lengthen; alternatively there may be a sudden and complete stoppage of the periods. There is a change in the balance of sex hormones in the body, which sometimes leads to hot flushes and other vasomotor symptoms, palpitations, and dryness of the mucous membrane lining the vagina. Some women may also experience emotional disturbances. Some of these symptoms may be alleviated by hormone replacement therapy. The term 'menopause' is also used for the postmenopausal period. See also POSTMENOPAUSAL BLEEDING. $\textemdash$menopausal adj.
## Source[^2]
- The time in a woman's life when ovulation and menstruation cease (see MENSTRUAL CYCLE). It normally occurs between the ages of 45 and 55. The effects of the gonadotrophic hormones, follicle-stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone, in the ovaries decrease so that the follicles do not develop properly. There is a change in the balance of the hormones oestradiol and progesterone, secreted by the ovaries, which may be associated with certain physical symptoms, such as weight gain and 'hot flushes', and there may also be mood changes. These symptoms can be treated by long-term hormone replacement therapy with oestrogens and progestogens.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]