## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- 1. The process of manipulating a logical expression and thereby transforming it into a simpler but equivalent expression with the same truth table. In practice this commonly means reducing the number of logic gates, gate inputs, or logic levels in a combinational circuit that realizes the logical expression. Minimization methods include use of Karnaugh maps and algebraic manipulation (often computer-aided). 
- (2) The process of converting a finite-state machine to an equivalent minimal machine. 
- (3) In the study of effective computability, the process of defining a new function by searching for values of a given function using the minimization operator or $\mu\textendash\text{operator}$. The functions involved are usually over the natural numbers. Let $g$ be a function of $n+1$ variables. Then, for any given values of $x_{1}, \ldots, x_{n}$, the expression$$\mu y.g(x_1,\ldots,x_n,y)$$is evaluated by searching for the smallest value of $y$ for which$$g\left(x_{1}, \ldots, x_{n}, y\right)=0$$This can be done by letting $y$ run through all natural numbers, in increasing order, until a suitable $y$ is found, whereupon that value of $y$ is returned as the value of the $\mu$-expression. If no suitable $y$ exists the $\mu$-expression is undefined. Also it may happen that before a suitable $y$ is found a value of $y$ is encountered for which$$g\left(x_{1}, \ldots, x_{n}, y\right)$$is itself undefined; in this case again the $\mu$-expression is undefined. 
- This construct is used to define a function $f$ of $n$ variables from the function $g$ of $n+1$ variables:$$f\left(x_{1}, \ldots, x_{n}\right)=\mu y.g\left(x_{1}, \ldots, x_{n}, y\right)$$Because of the possibility of the $\mu$-expression being undefined, $f$ is a partial function. The process of searching for values, and the use of minimization, are essential factors that allow the formalism of recursive functions to define all the computable functions. 
- (4) See OPTIMIZATION.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]