## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. The problem of explaining why a mirror appears to reverse left and right but not up and down. This question, often loosely labelled a paradox, has been discussed ever since the Greek philosopher Plato (?427-?347 BC) answered it incorrectly in his dialogue Timaeus. According to a widely accepted explanation in The Ambidextrous Universe (1964) by the best-selling US science writer Martin Gardner (1914-2010), the fact that the image appears behind the mirror causes the viewer to perform a mental rotation of it, using the vertical axis of rotation because the human body is nearly left-right symmetrical and this is therefore the easiest mental rotation to perform; but this explanation fails because mental rotation is too slow to account for the phenomenon and because it relies on an awareness that what is seen is a mirror image, whereas the apparent left-right reversal is experienced as usual by a viewer who lacks this awareness. Others have offered explanations based on the fact that we have a pair of horizontally separated eyes; but the apparent reversal is unaffected by closing one eye. Further fallacious explanations have relied on physics or linguistics (the ambiguity of the words left and right). The correct solution to the problem, first published by the English psychologist Richard L(angton) Gregory (1923-2010) in his book Mirrors of the Mind in 1997, with an added discussion of faces in 1999, is surprisingly simple. A mirror does not reverse left and right or top and bottom, but in order to see the reflection of an object we have to rotate it physically to face the mirror, and we usually perform this rotation about the horizontal axis, therefore the image appears left-right reversed because the object is indeed left-right reversed relative to the orientation of the reflected image. If, instead, we turned an object over about its horizontal axis to face a mirror, then its reflection would appear upside-down but not left-right reversed. Mirror images of our own faces appear left-right reversed for the same reason: to look in a mirror, we turn horizontally through 180 degrees relative to the reflected image we are about to produce; we cannot face the same way as the reflected image, because then we would be facing away from the mirror. See also ENANTIOMORPH.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]