## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (mtDNA) A circular ring of DNA found in mitochondria. In mammals mtDNA makes up less than $1 \%$ of the total cellular DNA, but in plants the amount is variable. It codes for ribosomal and transfer RNA but only some mitochondrial proteins (up to 30 proteins in animals), the nuclear DNA being required for encoding most of these. Human mtDNA contains 37 genes, encoding 13 proteins and some RNAs. Mitochondrial DNA is generally inherited via the female line only, although there are exceptions to this (see heteroplasmy). According to the endosymbiont theory, mitochondrial DNA is a remnant of the chromosome of the symbiotic prokaryote ancestor of the mitochondrion. See also MITOCHONDRIAL EVE.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A form of DNA found in mitochondria, having its own genetic code, slightly different from the universal code of nuclear DNA and subject to variation between species, encoding subunits of vital respiratory enzymes. It is inherited only from mothers, because only the mother's ovum contributes cytoplasm to the zygote, it consists of several loops, each containing 37 genes, and it is present in every mitochondrion. Mutations in mitochondrial DNA caused by free radicals have been linked to aging and to several chronic degenerative diseases of the muscles and brain, including dystonia, Alzheimer's disease, and diabetes mellitus. Comparisons of harmless mutations or changes in introns that have accumulated, apparently at a fairly constant rate, in the mitochondrial DNA of people from around the world have been used to trace the prehistoric migrations of populations from the emergence of Homo sapiens in Africa about 150,000 years ago. Mitochondrial DNA is also used in genetic fingerprinting when nuclear DNA cannot be extracted in sufficient quantity, as often occurs when DNA is taken from solid bone, tooth fragments, hair, or faeces, rather than from blood, saliva, or semen. See also Eve, EVOLUTIONARY CLOCK, MATERNAL INHERITANCE, NON-MENDELIAN GENE, PARSIMONY PRINCIPLE, PLASMAGENE. Compare PLASMID. mtDNA abbrev.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]