## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The extent to which workers are willing to move from one region or country to another (geographical mobility) or to change from one occupation to another (occupational mobility). In horizontal mobility there is no change of status, whereas in vertical mobility there is. An upward change in status will increase a worker's mobility, whereas a downward change will reduce it. The more highly skilled a worker, the less his occupational mobility will be, but he will often be highly geographically mobile. An unskilled worker will often be both occupationally and geographically mobile. In the UK, many government retraining schemes aim to increase occupational mobility; at the same time considerable effort goes into encouraging new industries into areas of high unemployment to reduce the need for geographical mobility.
## Source[^2]
- The ability of workers to change jobs. This may be between different firms, different occupations, different locations, or different countries. There can be a range of obstacles to mobility. Workers changing employers lose seniority, which may affect their pay, vacations, and redundancy rights, and may lose in terms of their pension rights. Workers changing occupations lose in terms of the weight given to their experience and possibly to their formal qualifications. Workers changing location face problems over housing. International mobility of labour is hindered by immigration controls, problems over recognition of the immigrants' qualifications, and language barriers. Governments and supranational organizations such as the European Union attempt to improve labour mobility in the interests of economic efficiency, but perfect mobility of labour seems extremely unlikely. See also FACTOR MOBILITY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]