## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Any logical system that allows the use of modal operators designed to explore modes of truth. The two most common operators are 'necessity' and 'possibility', usually written as $\square$ and $\lozenge$, where $\square F$ expresses ' $F$ is necessarily true' and $\lozenge F$ that '$F$ is possibly true.' The objective of modal logic is to pin down meanings and laws of reasoning for these modes of truth. Modal logic has been developed in philosophy and is now the basis of advanced technologies in computer science.
- For a modal operator $\alpha$, the value of a formula $\alpha F$ in an interpretation $\boldsymbol{I}$ depends on the values of $F$ in a whole class of interpretations related to $\boldsymbol{I}$, rather than on the value of $F$ in just $\boldsymbol{I}$ itself as is the case in a nonmodal logic. Thus $\square F$ is true in an interpretation (or world) $w$ if $F$ is true in all worlds $w^{\prime}$ related to (or accessible from) $w$, while $\lozenge F$ is true in $w$ if $F$ is true in at least one such $w^{\prime}$. In discussing the semantics of modal logic, therefore, one considers frames of the form $(W, R)$, where $W$ is a set of worlds and $R$ is an accessibility relation on $W$. Each world attaches a value to all the primitive symbols in the language.
- In [[dynamic logic]] the modal operators correspond to programs, and the worlds correspond to states of execution. Then the formula $\alpha F$ is true in a particular state $s$ if $F$ is true in all states reachable from $s$ by running the program $\alpha$. Dynamic logic is similar to Hoare logic in the fact that its formulas involve both programming and logical constructs.
- In temporal logics the modal operators deal with interpretations that might depend on the time: formulas express ' $F$ is sometimes true' or ' $F$ is always true'. Other modal operators express notions of belief, desirability, and obligation. All these ideas are of great relevance in reasoning about programs and systems. Hence recent years have seen extensive use of modal logics in program verification and formal specification, especially for concurrent programs and systems.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. The logic of necessity and possibility, first developed in 1912 by the US logician and philosopher C(larence) I(rving) Lewis (1883-1964), in which a modal proposition is a proposition (1) that asserts something to be necessarily or possibly true, and a modal syllogism is a syllogism in which at least one of the premises is a modal proposition or statement. If $p$ is a proposition, then $p$ is possible means the same as it is not necessary that not-p, and $p$ is contingent means the same as it is not necessary either that $p$ or that not-p. See also CATEGORICAL SYLLOGISM, DEDUCTIVE REASONING, DEONTIC LOGIC, EPISTEMIC REASONING, POSSIBLE WORLD. \[From Latin modus a measure or manner + -alis of or relating to]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]