## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A simplified system used to simulate some aspects of the real economy. Models are used in economics because there are limited possibilities for experimentation and past experience does not always provide an answer. A model is a simplified description of the economy, or the part of the economy, relevant for the analysis. Economic models are distinguished from those in the natural sciences by the incorporation of independent decision-making by firms, consumers, and the politicians and bureaucrats who constitute government. These economic agents do not respond mechanically but are motivated by personal objectives and are strategic in their behavior. Capturing the implications of this complex behavior in a convincing manner is the key attribute of a successful economic model.
## Source[^2]
- A simplified representation of something (the referent). The representation may be physical or abstract, and may be restricted to certain properties of the referent. In computing, models are usually abstract and are typically represented in a diagramming notation, such as dataflow diagrams (in functional design), ERA diagrams (for a data model), or state-transition diagrams (for a model of behavior); in the case of the relational model the referent is the target system while in the waterfall model, V-model, and spiral model the referent is the development process. In computer graphics, models are used to create realistic images of objects and their attributes (see COLOR MODEL, LIGHTING MODEL, REFLECTANCE MODEL).
## Source[^3]
- $n$. A deliberately simplified and usually idealized and imaginary representation (1) of a phenomenon, with fundamental properties that are explicitly defined (or physically built) and from which other properties can be deduced by logical reasoning (or by empirical observation if the model is a physical object). Inferences from the model apply only to the model and not necessarily to the reality that it purports to represent, but if the model captures the important features of the phenomenon, then such inferences may apply also to the phenomenon itself. Among the most successful abstract models in the history of science are Euclid's geometry, which models spatial relationships, and Newton's theory of mechanics, which models the interaction of physical objects and forces operating on them. See also additive MODEL, CONSTRUCT, LINEAR MODEL, MEASUREMENT MODEL, MULTIPLICATIVE MODEL, QUADRATIC MODEL. Compare HYPOTHESIS, THEORY.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]