## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- an antibody produced artificially from a cell clone and therefore consisting of a single type of immunoglobulin. Monoclonal antibodies are produced by fusing antibody-forming lymphocytes from mouse spleen with mouse myeloma cells. The resulting hybrid cells multiply rapidly (like cancer cells) and produce the same antibody as their parent lymphocytes. In addition to their use in research, monoclonal antibodies are valuable diagnostic tools and have also been developed as pharmaceutical agents for treating a variety of conditions. For example, they are used in the detection and treatment of cancer, as each one recognizes different proteins on the surface of both malignant and benign cells. They can be used alone as monotherapy or to deliver drugs or radioactive materials (e.g. yttrium-90) directly to tumor cells.
## Source[^2]
- (Mab) A specific antibody produced by one of numerous identical cells derived from a single parent cell. (The population of these cells comprises a clone and each cell is said to be monoclonal.) Monoclonal antibodies occur naturally as part of the humoral immune response when activated lymphocytes divide to form a clone of progeny cells all producing identical antibodies. They are also produced experimentally and commercially in cell culture by fusing a normal antibody-producing lymphocyte with a cell derived from a malignant tumor of lymphoid tissue of a mouse (see CELL FUSION). The resulting hybridoma cell then multiplies rapidly and yields large amounts of antibody. Monoclonal antibodies are used to identify a particular antigen within a mixture and can therefore be used for identifying blood groups; they also enable the production of highly specific, and therefore effective, vaccines and drugs such as immunotoxins. Above all, they have transformed medical and biological diagnostics by ushering in a huge range of cheap and convenient kits for identifying and quantifying biological materials (see IMMUNOASSAY).
## Source[^3]
- $n$. An antibody, produced by a single clone (1) of B lymphocytes fused with malignant tumor cells and grown in a culture, consisting of a population of identical molecules all specific for a single antigen and capable of proliferating indefinitely to produce unlimited copies of itself; widely used in biotechnology, genetic engineering, and the diagnosis of disorders. \[From Greek monos single or alone + English clone]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]