## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. A problem of decision making and probability judgement, and a veridical paradox, first presented and named by the US biostatistician Steve Selvin (born 1941) in two letters in the journal American Statistician in 1975 and subsequently popularized by the US columnist Marilyn vos Savant (born 1946) in Parade magazine in September 1990. The solution is so difficult to believe that, when it was first published, many people, including university professors of statistics and even the world-famous Hungarian mathematician Paul Erdös (1913-96) initially refused to accept it. In the simplest version, a game show host invites you to choose among three doors, behind just one of which is a car. After your initial choice, the host, who knows where the car is, opens another door, always one that has no car behind it, and invites you to switch your choice to the remaining unopened door if you wish. The problem is, should you switch? Surprisingly, switching doubles your probability of winning the car from $1 / 3$ to $2 / 3$. The reason is that there is one chance in three that the car is behind your originally chosen door, and accepting the invitation to switch wins the car if your original choice was wrong. The probability that your original choice was wrong is $2 / 3$, and if it was wrong, then you are certain to win the car if you switch. In many descriptions of the problem, there is a car behind one of the doors and a goat behind each of the others. The probabilistic phenomenon underlying the problem can be traced to Bertrand's box paradox, first discussed by the French mathematician Joseph (Louis François) Bertrand (1822-1900) on pages 3-4 of his book Calcul des Probabilités in 1889. Also called the Monty Hall dilemma. See also principle of restricted choice. \[Named after the Canadian-born US entertainer Monty Hall (born Monte Halperin, 1921) who hosted the television game show Let's Make a Deal in which the problem was first noticed]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]