## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (Monte Carlo simulations). A method of investigating the behavior of economic models which are too complicated for analytical solutions to be possible. A system is started off at a large number of initial positions chosen at random, and followed through a numerical simulation to see how it evolves. Monte Carlo methods can be used to check whether a system has an equilibrium, and whether this is stable for any starting point, or for some limited region of possible starting points. Monte Carlo simulations are used in econometrics to approximate the true sampling properties of an estimator of a model parameter or of a test statistic. This is achieved by generating a large number of independent artificial data sets under the conditions of interest and calculating the parameter estimate or the statistic for each data set. For example, the sample mean of the parameter estimate across the data sets is used to approximate the true mean of the sampling distribution of the correspondent estimator.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. Any of a range of heuristic techniques of statistical analysis, used especially when an algorithm or formula is unavailable, in which the phenomenon or process of interest is simulated, usually on a computer, by the generation of random numbers. For example, to estimate the probability of five heads in five successive coin tosses, an analyst unfamiliar with the binomial test could simulate five coin tosses thousands of times on a computer and count the proportion that consist of five heads. This would amount to performing a randomization test. \[Named by its pioneer, the Hungarian-born US mathematician John von Neumann (1903-57), after the casino at Monte Carlo where randomization determines outcomes]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]