## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. A visual illusion that causes the moon to appear relatively larger when it is near the horizon than when it is at its zenith, although in both cases it subtends the same visual angle of about one-half of a degree or 30 minutes of arc. The illusion has never been satisfactorily explained. The earth's atmosphere does not act like a lens, enlarging the image near the horizon, as many people believe; we can easily measure the size of the image at different heights, and this confirms that the image size remains constant. Many textbooks and articles suggest that the Ebbinghaus illusion makes the moon look larger when it is close to tiny trees and houses near the horizon, or that the Ponzo illusion might make it look larger when the surrounding landscape provides linear perspective cues; but the illusion is visible even from ships at sea, where no such cues are visible near the horizon. Furthermore, any explanation needs to account for the fact that the illusion disappears if one views the moon upside-down, by bending over and peering through one's legs. The sun is much larger than the moon but by remarkable coincidence almost identical to it in angular size, fitting behind the moon almost perfectly in a total eclipse, and it is also subject to the moon illusion, appearing much larger shortly after sunrise or shortly before sunset than at its zenith. The illusion first appeared in print in the Meteorology of the Greek philosopher Aristotle (384-322 BC), who described its effect on the sun and stars but oddly omitted to mention the moon: 'The sun and stars seem bigger when rising and setting than on the meridian' (Book 3, Chapter 4, Bekker edition, p. 373b). Also called the celestial illusion, especially when referring to the illusion in a stimulus other than the moon. See also EmMERT's LAW, HORIZONTAL-VERTICAL ILLUSION, PERSPECTIVE ILLUSION, SIZE-DISTANCE INVARIANCE, VISUAL ANGLE.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]