## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The mental processes that arouse, sustain, and direct human behavior. Motivation may stem from processes taking place within an individual (intrinsic motivation) or from the impact of factors acting on the individual from outside (extrinsic motivation); in most cases these two influences are continually interacting.
- The vocabulary associated with motivation is large; such terms as purpose, desire, need, goal, preference, perception, attitude, recognition, achievement, and incentive are commonly used. Many of these drives can act on an individual simultaneously, causing varying degrees of conflict. A consumer deciding between buying chocolate and buying ice cream is in conflict. An employee who wants to disagree with the boss but also wants to keep his or her job is in conflict.
- In a business context, an understanding of human motivation is crucial to understanding consumer buying behavior. It is also vital to the design of organizational norms and structures, including reward structures, that encourage effort and achievement on the part of employees. In the realm of theory considerable importance has been given to the hierarchy of needs investigated by Abraham Maslow (1908-70; see MASLOW'S MOTIVATIONAL HIERARCHY), which places the basic needs of human survival at the bottom of the scale of human motivation and selfactualization at the top. The more flexible ERG theory focuses on three groups of needs that form a hierarchy: existence needs (physical and material wants); relatedness needs (the desire for interpersonal relationships); and growth needs (desires to be creative and productive).
- Although most psychologists now believe that human needs and motives are too variable to be confined to a fixed hierarchy, these theories have the merit of emphasizing that, besides goals, ambitions, and rewards, there is a need for success to be recognized by others and a need to develop and progress. A person in an organization never works in a vacuum; there can be a real conflict between different motivations that relate to the organization: Would I be worse paid working elsewhere? But would I be more secure/better trained/more appreciated elsewhere? See ACHIEVEMENT MOTIVATION THEORY; ALIENATION; THEORY X AND THEORY Y; THEORY Z; VALENCE-INSTRUMENTALITY-EXPECTANCY THEORY.
## Source[^2]
- The internal conditions responsible for temporary reversible changes in the responsiveness of an animal to external stimulation. Thus an animal that has been deprived of food will accept less palatable food than one that has not been deprived: the difference is attributed to a change in feeding motivation. Changes in responsiveness due to maturation, learning, or injury are not usually readily reversible and are therefore not considered to be due to changes in motivation. Early attempts to describe motivation in terms of a number of separate drives (e.g. food drive, sex drive) have not found general favour, partly because drives interact with one another; for example, water deprivation often affects an animal's willingness to feed.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. A driving force or forces responsible for the initiation, persistence, direction, and vigour of goal-directed behaviour. It includes the biological drives such as hunger, thirst, sex, and self-preservation, and also social forms of motivation such as need for achievement and need for affiliation. motivational adj. \[From Latin motivus moving, from motus moved, from movere to move + -ation indicating a process or condition]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]