## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- MP3 A form of audio compression based on the MPEG format for video. Users specify a bit rate$\textemdash$the number of kilobits to be used for each second$\textemdash$and the MP3 encoder will discard differences in the sound signal sufficient to achieve this. Lower bit rates thus give smaller files but lower sound quality on playback. Bit rates of 32 kbps or higher will compress speech significantly without a discernible loss of quality; however, at least 128 kbps is required for music. MP3 files are a highly popular format for downloads of music from the Internet. MP3 players, capable of storing large numbers of music tracks in flash memory, and playing the tracks through earphones, are also popular. See also iPod.
## Source[^2]
- (MPEG layer 3) The audio encoding part of the MPEG video and audio coding standard. It makes use of lossy compression and is one of the coding standards commonly used for audio data to allow its data size to be reduced by up to about a twelfth. This is achieved by removing redundancy and reducing the audio quality. Redundancy removal is achieved by exploiting masking, such that high-level spectral components in a given short time frame can completely obscure or mask lower-level spectral components at other frequencies. Masked components are removed from the signal altogether. The quality can be reduced by reducing a two-channel signal for stereophonic sound reproduction into a monophonic signal and/or by reducing the sampling frequency. Various degrees of quality reduction are usually associated with MP3 audio coding systems. MP3 is the most common standard for the transfer of music files across the Internet. MP3 players are used to store large numbers of music tracks and play them through earphones.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]