## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. an excessive involvement with oneself and one's self-importance, often to cover insecurity. In Freudian terms it is a state in which the ego has taken itself as a love object. Some degree of narcissism is present in most individuals, but when it is shown to an extreme degree it may become a personality disorder. $\textemdash$narcissistic adj.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. Self-love, or sexual gratification obtained by contemplating oneself. In psychoanalysis, cathexis of the ego by sexual instincts, as occurs in homosexuality, according to Sigmund Freud (1856-1939) in his book Three Essays on the Theory of Sexuality (1905, Standard Edition, VII, pp. 130-243, at p. 145n). Freud later formed the view that it is a normal psychosexual stage of development, between stages of auto-erotism and object libido, and in 1914 he published an entire article entitled 'On Narcissism: An Introduction' (Standard Edition, XIV, pp. 73-102) in which he expounded at length his theory at that time. The Austrian-born US psychoanalyst Heinz Kohut (1913-81) viewed narcissism as a natural part of development, but the British-based Austrian psychoanalyst Melanie Klein (1882-1960) and her followers questioned Freud's theory, arguing that object-relationships are evident from the earliest stages of sucking. The concept of narcissism was originally introduced in 1898 by the English sexologist Havelock Ellis (1859-1939) in an article entitled 'Auto-erotism: A Psychological Study'. See also ego libido, GRANDIOSE SELF, NARCISSISTIC NEUROSIS, NARCISSISTIC OBJECT-CHOICE, NARCISSISTIC PERSONALITY DISORDER, PRIMARY NARCISSISM, SECONDARY NARCISSISM. Compare OBJECT RELATIONS. narcissistic adj. \[Named after Narkissos, a beautiful youth in Greek mythology who pined away for love of his own reflection in a pool and was punished by being transformed into the flower that bears his name]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]