## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The process that, according to Darwinism, brings about the evolution of new species of animals and plants. Both Darwin and Wallace noted that the size of any population tends to remain constant despite the fact that more offspring are produced than are needed to maintain it. They also saw that variations existed between individuals of the population and concluded that disease, competition, and other forces acting on the population eliminated those individuals less well adapted to their environment. The survivors would pass on any heritable advantageous characteristics (i.e. characteristics with survival value) to their offspring and in time the composition of the population would change in adaptation to a changing environment. Over a long period of time this process could give rise to organisms so different from the original population that new species are formed. See selection. See also adaptive RADIATION. Compare PUNCTUATED EQUILIBRIUM.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. The basic mechanism of evolution whereby those individuals in a population that are best adapted to the environment survive and produce more offspring than others, thereby altering the composition of the population and eventually the characteristics of the species. The term was introduced by the English naturalist Charles (Robert) Darwin (1809-82) in his book The Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection or the Preservation of Favored Races in the Struggle for Life (1859). See also APOSTATIC SELECTION, BLIND WATCHMAKER, CANALIZING SELECTION, COUNTERACTING SELECTION, DARWINIAN EVOLUTION, DIRECTIONAL SELECTION, DISRUPTIVE SELECTION, FREQUENCY-DEPENDENT SELECTION, GROUP SELECTION, KIN SELECTION, K-SELECTION, MEME, REINFORCING SELECTION, R-SELECTION, SELECTION PRESSURE, SELFISH GENE, SEXUAL SELECTION, STABILIZING SELECTION.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]