## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. A form of paradoxical therapy in which the patient or client is enjoined to practise the very behavior that needs to be eliminated. The US psychologist Knight Dunlap (1875-1949) introduced it in an article entitled 'A revision of the Fundamental Law of Habit Formation' in the journal Science in 1928, in which he reported: 'The first opportunity which occurred for the testing of this method lay in an idiosyncrasy of my own in typewriting. For some years I have been annoyed, when typing rapidly, by an occasional transposition of the letters of a word, the word "the" being especially troublesome, so that in reading over a manuscript of my own typing I would sometimes find two, three or more of these transpositions into "hte."...I now proceeded to try the typing of "hte" voluntarily, as a means of destroying it. I set to work deliberately and wrote about half a page, single spaced, of the "hte" combination, with the futuric thought that this was a "word" that I would not write in the future (unless deliberately or voluntarily). Somewhat over a week later, I followed this with a second "practice period," writing less than a third of a page. This was over three months ago. Since that time I have typed many pages, some rapidly, but have not found on reading them over a single case of "hte"!' (vol. 67, p. 361). Dunlap developed his theory further in an article in Scientific Monthly in 1930 and in a book entitled Habits: Their Making and Unmaking (1932, pp. 94-6, 163-4, 313-14). See also paradoxical intention.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]