## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. (pl. neuroses) any long-term mental or behavioral disorder in which contact with reality is retained and the condition is recognized by the sufferer as abnormal: the term and concept originated from Freud. A neurosis essentially features anxiety or behavior exaggeratedly designed to avoid anxiety. Defence mechanisms against anxiety take various forms and may appear as phobias, obsessions, compulsions, or sexual dysfunctions. In recent classifications, the disorders formerly included under the neuroses have been renamed. The general term is now anxiety disorder; hysteria has become conversion disorder; amnesia, fugue, and depersonalization are dissociative disorders; obsessional neurosis is now known as obsessive-compulsive disorder; and depressive neurosis has become dysthymia. Psychoanalysis has proved of little value in curing these conditions; behavior therapy and SSRIs are effective in many cases. $\textendash$neurotic adj.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. An imprecise term for a relatively mild mental disorder with predominantly distressing symptoms and without loss of insight (3) or reality testing, and without apparent organic aetiology, including anxiety neurosis (see GENERALIZED ANXIETY DISORDER); depersonalization neurosis (see DEPERSONALIZATION/DEREALIZATION DISORDER); depressive neurosis (see DYSTHYMIC DISORDER); hysterical neurosis, conversion and dissociative types (see CONVERSION DISORDER, DISSOCIATIVE DISORDERS, HISTRIONIC PERSONALITY DISORDER); obsessive-compulsive neurosis (see OBSESSIVE-COMPULSIVE DISORDER); and phobic neurosis (see PHOBIA). The word was coined in 1777 by the Scottish physician William Cullen (1710-90) in a medical treatise entitled First Lines of the Practice of Physic. See also actual neurosis, CHOICE OF NEUROSIS, FAILURE NEUROSIS, FAMILY NEUROSIS, PSYCHONEUROSIS. Compare PSYChosis (1). neuroses pl. \[From Greek neuron a nerve + -osis indicating a process or state]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]