## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- In statistical inference, a set of restrictions being tested. The null hypothesis is assumed to be true unless the test suggests otherwise, in which case it is rejected in favor of the alternative hypothesis. The test is usually set such that the distribution of the test statistic, under the assumption that the null hypothesis is true, is known (the null distribution). The null hypothesis is rejected in favor of the alternative if the numerical value of the test statistic falls in the region of values that can be generated by a random draw from the null distribution only with a low probability. See also ONE-TAILED TEST; $p$-VALUE; TWO-TAILED TEST; TYPE I and II ERRORS.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. In inferential statistics, the provisional hypothesis that there is no difference or no relationship and that the observed experimental results can therefore be attributed to chance alone. If the statistical test rejects the null hypothesis, then the alternative hypothesis may be accepted and the effect that has been observed may be considered statistically significant. The term was introduced by English statistician and geneticist Ronald Aylmer Fisher (1890-1962) on page 18 of his book The Design of Experiments. See also significance test. \[From Latin nullus none, from ne not + ullus any + hypo under + thesis a placing, from tithenai to place]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]