## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. inflammation of the oesophagus (gullet). Frequent regurgitation of acid and peptic juices from the stomach causes reflux oesophagitis, the commonest form, which may be associated with a hiatus hernia. The main symptoms are heartburn, acid regurgitation, odynophagia, and sometimes difficulty in swallowing (dysphagia). Complications include bleeding, stricture formation, and Barrett's oesophagus. It is treated with antacids and by maintaining an upright position, using more pillows at night, eating the evening meal earlier in the day, weight loss, and dietary restraint. In severe cases fundoplication surgery may be required. Corrosive oesophagitis is caused by the ingestion of caustic acid or alkali. It is often severe and may lead to perforation of the oesophagus and extensive stricture formation. Immediate treatment includes food avoidance and antibiotics; later, stricture dilatation is often needed. Infective oesophagitis is most commonly due to a fungus (Candida) infection in debilitated or immunocompromised patients, especially those being treated with antibiotics, corticosteroids, and immunosuppressant drugs, but is occasionally due to viruses (such as cytomegalovirus or herpesvirus). Eosinophilic oesophagitis is a poorly understood condition characterized by infiltration of the oesophageal lining by excess eosinophils. Autoimmune disease and food allergy are two commonly proposed causes. Treatment is directed towards exclusion of allergens and oral or inhaled steroids.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]