## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. one of a group of steroid hormones (including oestriol, oestrone, and oestradiol) that control female sexual development, promoting the growth and function of the female sex organs (see MENSTRUAL CYCLE) and female secondary sexual characteristics (such as breast development). Oestrogens are synthesized mainly by the ovary; small amounts are also produced by the adrenal cortex, testes, and placenta. In men excessive production of oestrogen gives rise to feminization.
- Naturally occurring and synthetic oestrogens are used to treat amenorrhoea and menopausal symptoms (see HORMONE REPLACEMENT THERAPY), as well as androgen-dependent cancers (e.g. cancer of the prostate). Synthetic oestrogens are a major constituent of oral contraceptives. Side-effects of oestrogen therapy may include nausea and vomiting, headache and dizziness, irregular vaginal bleeding, fluid and salt retention, and feminization in men. Oestrogens should not be used in patients with a history of cancer of the breast, uterus, or genital tract. $\textemdash$oestrogenic adj.
## Source[^2]
- One of a group of female steroid sex hormones, produced principally by the ovaries, that promote the onset of secondary sexual characteristics (such as breast enlargement and development in women) and control the oestrous cycle (menstrual cycle in humans). Oestradiol is the most important; others include estrone and estriol, which are less active than oestradiol. Oestrogens are secreted at particularly high levels during ovulation, stimulating the uterus to prepare for pregnancy. They are used in oral contraceptives (with progestogens) and as treatment for various disorders of the female reproductive organs. Small amounts of oestrogens are produced by the adrenal glands and testes. Oestrogens are synthesized ultimately from cholesterol via intermediates that include testosterone and other male sex hormones (see androgen). These intermediates are converted to oestrogens by the enzyme aromatase, which is found in the ovaries and also in adipose tissue, an important source of oestrogens in postmenopausal women.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. Any of a group of steroid hormones that are secreted by the ovaries during the female oestrous cycle and that stimulate the development of female secondary sexual characteristics. US estrogen, estrogenic. See also DHEA, STILBOESTROL. Compare TESTOSTERONE. oestrogenic adj. \[From Latin oestrus a gadfly or frenzy, from Greek oistros a gadfly + Greek genes born or produced]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]