## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (OBS) Denoting assets or liabilities that do not appear on the balance sheet of a company. Various off-balance-sheet arrangements have been used by companies wishing to avoid full disclosure of their assets or liabilities; these include complex legal agreements, the use of joint ventures or specifically created subsidiaries, and securitizations and other structured finance arrangements. In off-balance-sheet finance a company removes some or all of its finance from the balance sheet, usually to enhance its accounting ratios, such as the gearing ratio and return on capital employed, or to avoid breaking any agreements it has made with the banks in respect of the total amount it may borrow. Similarly, banks have used a variety of off-balance-sheet methods, typically involving securitizations and special purpose vehicles, to avoid their obligations under the capital adequacy rules. The accounting profession has attempted to counter these practices by emphasizing that accounting should reflect the commercial reality of transactions and not simply their legal form. In the USA, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 introduced new regulations concerning the disclosure of off-balance-sheet arrangements in the wake of the scandal surrounding the collapse of the energy-trading giant Enron. In the banking and financial sector, the lack of transparency arising from complex off-balance-sheet practices has been identified as a factor in the financial crisis of 2008. See CREATIVE ACCOUNTING; HIDDEN RESERVE.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]