## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (optic commissure) the X-shaped structure formed by the two optic nerves, which pass backwards from the eyeballs to meet in the midline beneath the brain, near the pituitary gland (see illustration). Nerve fibers from the nasal side of the retina of each eye cross over to join fibers from the lateral side of the retina of the opposite eye. The optic tracts resulting from the junction pass backwards to the occipital lobes.
## Source[^2]
- (optic chiasma) The point where some of the fibers from both optic nerves cross over to the opposite side, forming an X-shaped structure. Sensory information from the right side of both the right and left eye is transmitted to the right primary visual cortex in the brain (via the right lateral geniculate nucleus), while information from the left side of each eye is carried via the left lateral geniculate nucleus to the left primary visual cortex. Additional neurons project from the primary visual cortex to connect to centers elsewhere in the cortex responsible for higher-order visual processing and integration. Thus each half of the brain receives sensory information from both eyes.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. An area at the bottom of the brain immediately below the hypothalamus where decussation (partial decussation in humans and other animals with forward-pointing eyes and therefore overlapping visual fields) of the optic nerve fibres occurs, with approximately half the fibres from each eye (the fibres from the nasal retina of each eye) crossing over to the opposite cerebral hemisphere. The effect of this is that images from the left visual field of both eyes are transmitted to the right cerebral hemisphere and images from the right visual field to the left cerebral hemisphere, enabling information from corresponding points in the visual fields of the eyes to come together in the visual cortex for binocular depth perception. In animals such as rabbits with much smaller overlap of visual fields, almost all the fibres are crossed. Also called the optic chiasma. See also BINOCULAR CELL. \[From Greek optikos optic, from optos seen + chiasma a cross, named after the shape of the upper-case letter chi (X)]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]