## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The right to buy or sell a fixed quantity of a commodity, currency, security, etc., at a particular date at a particular price (the exercise price). Unlike the buyer of a futures contract, the purchaser of an option is not obliged to buy or sell at the exercise price and will only do so if it is profitable; the purchaser may allow the option to lapse, in which case only the initial purchase price of the option (the option money or premium) is lost.
- An option to buy is known as a call option and is usually purchased in the expectation of a rising price; an option to sell is called a put option and is bought in the expectation of a falling price or to protect a profit on an investment. Options, like futures, allow individuals and firms to hedge against the risk of wide fluctuations in prices; they also allow dealers and speculators to gamble for large profits with limited initial payments.
- Professional traders in options make use of a large range of potential strategies, often purchasing combinations of options that reflect particular expectations or cover several contingencies. A traded option is one that can be bought or sold on an exchange at any time, as opposed to a traditional option, which once bought cannot be resold. There is a further distinction between European options, in which the buyer can only exercise the right to take up the option or let it lapse on the expiry date, and American options, in which this right can be exercised at any time up to the expiry date. American options are generally worth more than European options because the option holder has more chance of buying or selling at a favorable price. American options are also more difficult to value. See also REAL OPTION.
## Source[^2]
- A contract giving the holder the right but not the obligation to trade in a commodity, a share, or a currency on some future date at a pre-agreed price. A European option can only be exercised on the agreed date whereas an American option can be exercised at any time until the agreed date. A put option gives the holder the right to sell at a pre-agreed price. This can be used to reduce risk by somebody who has to hold the actual asset and is worried that its price may fall; it can equally be used to speculate on a price fall. A call option gives the holder the right to buy at a pre-agreed price. This can be used to reduce risk by people who expect to need the asset in the future and are worried that its price may rise before they buy; it can equally be used to speculate on a price rise. An options market is a market in which options are traded; these exist for many widely traded goods, shares, and currencies. Share options give a right to buy company shares at a future date at a pre-agreed price; they are used by companies as incentives for their executives. An option is contrasted with a futures contract, which carries the obligation as well as the right to trade. See also CALL OPTION; PUT OPTION; SHARE OPTION.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]