## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- a tablet containing one or more synthetic female sex hormones, taken by women to prevent conception. Most oral contraceptives are combined pills, consisting of an oestrogen, which blocks the normal process of ovulation, and a progestogen, which acts on the pituitary gland to block the normal control of the menstrual cycle. Progestogens also alter the lining of the uterus and the viscosity of mucus in its outlet, the cervix, so that conception is less likely should ovulation occur. These pills are taken every day for three weeks and then stopped for a week, during which time menstruation occurs. Side-effects may include headache, weight gain, nausea, skin changes, and depression. There is also a small risk that blood clots may form in the veins, especially those of the legs (which may lead to pulmonary embolism), or that prolonged use of hormonal contraceptives may reduce fertility. The unwanted pregnancy rate is less than 1 per 100 woman-years. With progestogen-only pills (sometimes known as minipills) the unwanted pregnancy rate is slightly higher (1-2 per 100 woman-years) but there are fewer side-effects (due to the absence of oestrogen).
- Other hormonal contraceptives include injections and implants (see CONTRACEPTION). See also POSTCOITAL CONTRACEPTION.
## Source[^2]
- Any hormonal preparation taken in the form of a pill to prevent conception (see BIRTH CONTROL). The most common form is the combined pill, which contains an oestrogen and a progestogen. Both act to suppress ovulation, while the progestogen additionally causes changes in the viscosity of cervical mucus and alters the lining of the womb, both of which decrease the chances of fertilization should ovulation occur. The so-called 'minipill' contains only a progestogen and has fewer side effects than the combined pill. Emergency contraception (the so-called 'morning-after pill'), is designed to prevent pregnancy after unprotected sexual intercourse. There are several types. One contains the synthetic progestogen levonorgestrol, which delays ovulation and has to be taken within 72 hours of intercourse. Another type contains ulipristal acetate, which also delays ovulation, and is effective for up to five days following intercourse.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]