## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A layer of the stratosphere protecting the Earth's surface from harmful radiation. Depletion of this layer is believed to be caused by human activities, the use of chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), halon, and other chemicals releasing chlorine molecules which, with a delay of around a decade, affect the stratosphere. Control of emissions requires global agreement, since each user of CFCs benefits from its own activities while most of the resulting damage affects the world as a whole. An agreement to replace CFCs and halon was reached in 1987 in the Montreal Protocol.
## Source[^2]
- (ozonosphere) A layer of the earth's atmosphere in which most of the atmosphere's ozone is concentrated. It occurs $15\text{-}50 \mathrm{~km}$ above the earth's surface and is virtually synonymous with the stratosphere. In this layer most of the sun's ultraviolet radiation is absorbed by the ozone molecules, causing a rise in the temperature of the stratosphere and preventing vertical mixing so that the stratosphere forms a stable layer. By absorbing most of the solar ultraviolet radiation the ozone layer protects living organisms on earth. The fact that the ozone layer is thinnest at the equator is believed to account for the high equatorial incidence of skin cancer as a result of exposure to unabsorbed solar ultraviolet radiation. In the 1980s it was found that depletion of the ozone layer was occurring over both the poles, creating ozone holes. This is thought to have been caused by a series of complex photochemical reactions involving nitrogen oxides produced from aircraft and, more seriously, chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) and halons. CFCs rise to the stratosphere, where they react with ultraviolet light to release chlorine atoms; these atoms, which are highly reactive, catalyse the destruction of ozone. Use of CFCs is now much reduced in an effort to reverse this human-induced damage to the ozone layer, and there are signs that the ozone holes are beginning to heal, although this process will likely take decades to complete. See also AIR POLLUTION.
- https://www.epa.gov/ozone-layer-protection
	- Description of the ozone layer, its depletion, and steps to protect it, produced by the US Environmental Protection Agency
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]