## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. 
- (1) a device used to produce and maintain a normal heart rate in patients who have bradycardia. The unit consists of a battery that stimulates the heart through one or more insulated electrode wires (leads) attached to the surface of the ventricle (epicardial pacemaker) or lying in contact with the lining of the heart (endocardial pacemaker). The pacemaker senses when the natural heart rate falls below a predetermined value and then stimulates the heart (demand pacemaker). A pacemaker may be used as a temporary measure with an external battery or it may be permanent, when the whole apparatus is surgically implanted under the skin. In most cases the right atrium and right ventricle are paced (dualchamber pacing), but in a proportion of patients only right ventricular (single-chamber) pacing is required. 
- (2) the part of the heart that regulates the rate at which it beats: the sinoatrial node.
## Source[^2]
- (1) (sinoatrial node) A small mass of specialized cardiac muscle cells in the mammalian heart, found in the wall of the right atrium near the opening for the vena cava. The cells initiate and maintain the heartbeat-their rhythmic electrical activity stimulates contractions of the atria, which in turn cause contractions of the ventricles (see ATRIOVENTRICULAR NODE). The electrical characteristics of the pacemaker cells result from the interplay of their various ion channels. These allow spontaneous and repeated generation of action potentials, which spread to neighboring cardiac muscle cells via gap junctions between neighboring cells. In particular, the change in polarity during each action potential depends on an influx of calcium ions $\left(\mathrm{Ca}^{2+}\right)$ through voltage-gated calcium channels, in contrast to the sodium ion channels in other cardiac muscle cells, neurons, and skeletal muscle. The interval between the action potentials of the pacemaker cells governs the rate of heartbeat, and is regulated by the autonomic nervous system. The sympathetic neurotransmitter noradrenaline speeds up heartbeat, whereas acetylcholine, released by parasympathetic nerve endings, has the opposite effect. Similar pacemakers occur in the hearts of other vertebrates. 
- (2) An electronic or nuclear battery-charged device that can be implanted surgically into the chest to produce and maintain the heartbeat. These devices are used when the heart's own pacemaker is defective or diseased.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]