## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. an unpleasant sensation ranging from mild discomfort to agonized distress, associated with real or potential tissue damage. Pain is a response to impulses from the peripheral nerves in damaged tissue, which pass to nerves in the spinal cord, where they are subjected to a gate control. This gate modifies the subsequent passage of the impulses in accordance with descending controls from the brain. Because attention is a crucial component of pain, distraction can act as a basis for pain therapy. On the other hand, anxiety and depression focus the attention and exaggerate the pain. If the nerve pathways are damaged, the brain can increase the amplification in the pathway, maintaining the sensation as a protective mechanism.
## Source[^2]
- Severe physical or mental discomfort or distress. Pain of a physical origin arises through detection of noxious stimuli or tissue injury by specific sensory neurons in the affected part of the body, which relay signals to the thalamus in the brain (see nOCICEPTION). However, perception of and susceptibility to pain are determined by higher centers in the cortex and can be influenced by such factors as emotional state.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. An unpleasant sensation usually caused by noxious stimulation of sensory nerve endings, defined in the Classification of Nursing Diagnoses of the North American Nursing Diagnosis Association as a state in which severe discomfort or an unpleasant sensation is experienced and signaled by the following: verbal and non-verbal communication, including self-protective behavior; narrowed attentional focus evidenced by altered time perspective, social withdrawal, or impaired thought processes; distraction behavior such as moaning, crying, pacing, restlessness; a facial expression of pain characterized by dull and lustreless eyes, a beaten appearance, and fixed or scattered facial movements or grimaces; alteration of muscle tone ranging from listlessness to rigidity; and autonomic responses such as increased blood pressure and pulse rate, pupil dilation, and increased or decreased respiration rate. See acute pain, analgesia, chronic pain, cold PRESSOR PAIN, ISCHAEMIC PAIN, PAIN RECEPTOR, REFERRED PAIN, SUBSTANCE P. See also adaptation (2), AlGESIMETER, AUDIOANALGESIA, C FIBRE, CINGULATE GYRUS, DELTA FIBRE, DOLORIMETER, ENDORPHIN, ENKEPHALIN, FLEXION REFLEX, FREE NERVE ENDING, GATE-CONTROL THEORY, INSULA, NEURALGIA, PAIN ASYMBOLIA, PEPTIDE, PERIAQUEDUCTAL GREY MATTER, PHANTOM LIMB, PROSTAGLANDIN, SOMATOSENSORY CORTEX, SPINORETICULOTHALAMIC SYSTEM, SPINOTHALAMIC TRACT, SUBSTANTIA GELATINOSA, THERMAL GRILL ILLUSION, VASOPRESSIN. painful adj. \[From Latin poena punishment or grief, from Greek poine penalty]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]