## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. inflammation of the pancreas. Acute pancreatitis is a sudden illness in which the patient experiences severe abdominal pain that radiates to the back. In severe cases, there is rapid deterioration with shock. Serum amylase levels are high. Its cause is not always discovered, but it may be associated with gallstones, alcoholism, drugs, infection, autoimmune disease, or recent interventions (such as ERCP). Complications include the formation of pseudocysts, abscesses, necrosis (necrotizing pancreatitis), and haemorrhage (haemorrhagic pancreatitis). Treatment consists of restricting oral intake, intravenous hydration, and antibiotics if infected necrosis is present. In severe cases, pancreatectomy may be required to remove necrosed tissue. Relapsing pancreatitis, in which the above symptoms are recurrent and less severe, may be associated with gallstones or alcoholism; prevention is by removal of gallstones and avoidance of alcohol and fat. Chronic pancreatitis may produce symptoms similar to relapsing pancreatitis or may be painless; it can lead to endocrine failure causing malabsorption and diabetes mellitus. The pancreas often becomes calcified, producing visible shadowing on X-rays. Autoimmune pancreatitis is a recently described condition in which an autoimmune process leads to inflammation and swelling of the pancreas. Although abdominal pain is minimal or absent, jaundice is usually present. Radiologically it is characterized by diffuse 'sausage-shaped' enlargement of the pancreas and narrowing of the main pancreatic duct. The presence of raised serum IgG4 is a serological marker. Treatment involves immunosuppressant agents (e.g. corticosteroids or azathioprine). Autoimmune pancreatitis is associated with other autoimmune disorders.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]