## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A government grant to an inventor assuring him/her the exclusive right to exploit or sell the invention for a limited period (usually 20 years). Under the 1985 Guidelines for Examination in the European Patent Office, patent protection is available to inventive computer programs in Europe if the invention is expressed in terms of a programmed machine. Programs can be patented in the USA if they comply with the originality and other requirements of the US Patent Act. Inventive hardware is patentable in Europe and this leads to a serious flaw in the law; the same task can be performed by both software and hardware but the former is expressly excluded from protection by a clause in the European Patent Convention. The question of whether a program that performs the same task as a piece of patented hardware infringes the patent in the hardware has not yet been decided in Europe, nor has it been decided whether a PROM is a piece of software or hardware. Many of these inventions are now given a special type of copyright protection under new laws protecting chip masks. See also TRADE SECRETS.
## Source[^2]
- The grant of an exclusive right to exploit an invention. In the UK patents are granted by the Crown through the Intellectual Property Office (IPO). An applicant for a patent (usually the inventor or the inventor's employer) must show that the invention is new, is not obvious, and is capable of industrial application. An expert known as a patent attorney often prepares the application, which must describe the invention in considerable detail. The IPO publishes these details if it grants a patent. A patent remains valid for 20 years from the date of application (the priority date) provided that the person to whom it has been granted (the patentee) continues to pay the appropriate fees. During this time, the patentee may assign the patent or grant licences to use it. Such transactions are registered in a public register at the IPO. If anyone infringes the patentee's monopoly, the patentee may sue for an injunction and damages or an account of profits. However, a patent from the Patent Office gives exclusive rights in the UK only: the inventor must obtain a patent from the European Patent Office in Munich and patents in other foreign countries to protect the invention elsewhere. For patents internationally the Patent Cooperation Treaty procedure can be used. A patent is a form of intellectual property and as such is an intangible asset.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]