## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A genetic disorder in which there is disordered metabolism of the amino acid phenylalanine, leading to severe mental retardation of affected children. The disease is caused by the absence or deficiency of the enzyme phenylalanine hydroxylase, which results in the accumulation of phenylalanine in all body fluids. There are also high levels of the ketone phenylpyruvate in the urine, hence the name of the disease. The disease occurs in individuals who are homozygous for the defective recessive allele at the PAH gene on chromosome 12. Both parents of such individuals are thus heterozygous carriers of the allele. The advent of gene probes has greatly aided accurate diagnosis, of both phenylketonurics and carriers.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. an inherited defect of protein metabolism (see INBORN ERROR OF METABOLISM) causing an excess of the amino acid phenylalanine in the blood, which damages the nervous system and leads to severe learning disabilities. Screening of newborn infants by testing a blood sample for phenylalanine (see Guthrie TEST) enables the condition to be detected soon enough for dietary treatment to prevent any brain damage: the baby's diet contains proteins from which phenylalanine has been removed. The gene responsible for phenylketonuria is recessive, so that a child is affected only if both parents are carriers of the defective gene.
## Source[^3]
- $n$. A hereditary disorder caused by a single recessive gene on chromosome 12, leading to the absence or deficiency of an enzyme required for the metabolism of phenylalanine, an amino acid found in red meats and other proteins, to tyrosine. Unless treated by dietary restriction of phenylalanine, it leads to a deficiency of serotonin and the accumulation in all body fluids of phenylalanine, which is toxic to brain tissue and causes intellectual disability. When two carriers of the gene have a child, there is a 1 in 4 chance that it will have the disorder, a 1 in 2 chance that it will be a carrier, and a 1 in 4 chance that it will be normal; and because approximately 1 in 50 people carry the recessive gene, the incidence of the disorder is about 1 in 10,000 births. Also called phenylpyruvic oligophrenia. PKU abbrev. \[From phenyl(alanine) + keton(e) + -uria indicating a diseased state of the urine, from Greek ouron urine + -ia indicating a condition or quality]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]