## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. a pathologically strong fear of a particular event or thing. Avoiding the feared situation may severely restrict one's life and cause much suffering. The main kinds of phobia are specific phobias (isolated fears of particular things, such as sharp knives), agoraphobia, claustrophobia, social phobias of encountering people, and animal phobias, as of spiders, rats, or dogs (see also PREPAREDNESS). Treatment is with cognitive behavioral therapy, desensitization, graded selfexposure, or flooding. Antidepressants are also useful.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. A persistent, irrational fear of an object, event, activity, or situation called a phobic stimulus, resulting in a compelling desire to avoid it. The presence or anticipation of the phobic stimulus triggers anxiety or a panic attack, although the person acknowledges the fear to be irrational, and the phobic stimulus is either avoided or endured with dread. A phobia that leads to clinically significant distress or impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning may be diagnosed as a mental disorder$\textemdash$either a specific phobia or a social anxiety disorder. A comprehensive list of phobias and phobic stimuli is provided in Appendix I at the back of this dictionary. According to a large survey of 704 randomly selected adults in Stockholm, Sweden, reported in the journal Behavior Research and Therapy in 1996, the most common phobic stimuli are heights (6.3 per cent of men, 8.6 per cent of women), snakes (2.4 per cent of men, 8.3 per cent of women), closed spaces (2.4 per cent of men, 5.4 per cent of women), and spiders (1.2 per cent of men, 5.6 per cent of women). Also called a phobic neurosis. See also (in the main body of the dictionary) agoraphobia, dysmorphophobia, Little Hans, pa-leng, paraphobia, phobic technique, social phobia, specific phobia, thanatophobia. phobic adj. \[From Greek phobos fear + -ia indicating a condition or quality]
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Psychology 4th Edition by Oxford Reference]]