## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A form of industrial action in which employees gather outside a workplace in which there is a trade dispute, usually a strike. The pickets so gathered often form a picket line, past which they attempt to discourage other workers, delivery lorries, and customers' collection lorries from passing. The purpose is to reinforce the effects of the strike and to encourage the maximum number of employees to join it. The right to peaceful picketing at one's own place of work is recognized in the Trade Union and Labor Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992. It is not lawful if it has not first been authorized by a ballot of the union involved and if the reason for the action is because the employer involved is employing a non-union employee. Secondary picketing, i.e. picketing other people's place of work is a civil offense under the Act. In particular so-called flying pickets, who join a picket line although they are neither employees of the organization being picketed nor union representatives of employees, have no immunity from civil action.
## Source[^2]
- The procedure during strikes of placing strikers outside workplaces to inform other workers that they are in dispute, and to attempt to persuade other employees, suppliers, and customers, not to cross the picket line. Actual picketing has varied between peaceful demonstrations by small numbers of strikers outside their own workplaces and violent intimidation by large numbers at the premises of firms not involved in a strike ('secondary picketing'). UK law prohibits secondary picketing, and if more than six pickets are present, the action can be challenged in the courts.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]