## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The disposal into the environment of substances that cannot be made harmless by normal biological processes. As part of a wider and increasing concern for environmental issues, the costs of industrialization are being assessed in terms of discharges into the air and water, the disposal and long-term effects of wastes, recycling, energy efficiency, land use and degradation, and the depletion of raw materials. Legislation has been enacted, increasingly, to limit levels of pollution and in 1996 an Environmental Agency was established in the UK to coordinate the previously separate activities of various agencies. Most other advanced industrial countries have introduced legislation and similar agencies. International targets have been agreed to eliminate the use of CFCs in aerosols and as a refrigerant (because they deplete the ozone layer). The adoption of the 'Polluter Pays Principle' (the fining of major companies for pollution incidents) and increasing awareness of green consumerism has meant that many leading companies have now issued environmental policy statements and some publish annual environmental audits. Under the UK's Pollution Prevention and Control Regulations (2000) excessive noise and vibrations are formally classed as pollutants. See also ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS; HAZARDOUS WASTE; WASTE DISPOSAL.
## Source[^2]
- Damage to the environment by the emission of noxious substances, which may be dirty, toxic, radioactive, or pathogenic. This may affect water, air, or land surfaces, in some cases over wide areas. Pollution resulting from economic activities is a major source of negative externalities. See also PERMIT TO POLLUTE.
## Source[^3]
- An undesirable change in the physical, chemical, or biological characteristics of the natural environment, brought about by human activities. It may be harmful to human or nonhuman life. Pollution may affect the soil, rivers, seas, or the atmosphere (see AIR POLLUTION). Some pollutants are biodegradable (e.g. sewage), which means that they can be rendered harmless by natural processes and need therefore cause no permanent harm if adequately dispersed or treated; others are nonbiodegradable (e.g. heavy metals in industrial effluents (see HEAVY-METAL POLLUTION) and DDT and other chlorinated hydrocarbons used as pesticides), and these accumulate in the environment and may be concentrated in food chains. Other forms of pollution in the environment include noise (e.g. from jet aircraft, traffic, and industrial processes), thermal pollution (e.g. the release of excessive waste heat into lakes or rivers causing harm to wildlife), and light pollution (from street lights, buildings, etc., which can disorientate wildlife). Current pollution problems include high levels of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere (see GREENHOUSE EFFECT); discarded plastic debris in watercourses and the oceans, harming aquatic and marine life; the disposal of radioactive waste; acid rain; photochemical smog; increasing levels of human waste; and pollution of inland and coastal waters by agricultural fertilizers and sewage effluent, causing eutrophication (see eutrophic). Attempts to contain or prevent pollution include strict regulations concerning factory emissions, the use of smokeless fuels, the banning of certain pesticides, greater use of renewable energy sources, the use of catalytic converters to cut pollutants in car exhausts, and the collection and recycling of plastic waste. See also CLIMATE CHANGE; SUSTAINABLE.
- http://www.worstpolluted.org/
	- The ten worst-polluted places in the world and the ten most-polluting industries; a report by Pure Earth (formerly the Blacksmith Institute) and Green Cross, Switzerland.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]