## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- In programming, polymorphism is the ability of a variable, function, or object to take on multiple forms. It is a core concept in OOP, allowing objects of different classes to be treated as objects of a common superclass.
## Source[^2]
- (1) A feature of inheritance that allows a subclass object to be treated as if it were one of its superclasses. Where the subclass and the superclass have different implementations of a method, that of the subclass is used. Polymorphism is a major contributor to the power of object-orientated languages. 
- (2) A feature of several modern high-level programming languages that allows arguments to procedures and functions to vary systematically over a whole class of data types, rather than being restricted to a single type. A simple example would be a function to find the length of a list. The code for such a function should be the same for lists of integers, lists of Booleans, or lists of anything. In a language like Algol, however, the argument to such a function must have a single type; hence to handle both lists of integers and lists of Booleans, two functions would have to be defined. This can be avoided in languages that support polymorphic types like 'list of alpha', where alpha is a type variable standing for an arbitrary type. A polymorphic function is one that takes one or more arguments of polymorphic types.
- Polymorphism was first used in the ML language. Its implementations in modern languages are usually called generics (Ada, Java, C\#, VB.NET) or templates (C++).
## Source[^3]
- Polymorphism is a concept in object-oriented programming (OOP) that refers to the ability of a program variable, object, or function to take on various forms. There are three classes of polymorphism: ad hoc polymorphism, parametric polymorphism, and subtyping.
- Ad hoc polymorphism occurs when a program function is implemented in different ways, depending on entered coding variables. For instance, a plus sign operator is considered a polymorphic function because it can be used by software programmers in various ways, including the addition of integers, merging of lists, and the merging of strings in software code.
- Parametric polymorphism allows programmers to write generic functions that treat all coding variable types (e.g. integers, characters, boolean operators) the same, which allows for faster computer calculations.
- Subtyping polymorphism allows programmers to substitute and reuse code in OOP languages by using a single name to refer to many programming objects that share variables and functions.
## Source[^4]
- $n$. (in genetics) the occurrence of a chromosome or a genetic character in more than one form, resulting in the coexistence of more than one morphological type in the same population.
## Source[^5]
- The existence of two or more distinctly different forms (morphs) within a plant or animal species, particularly due to genetic differences. Two forms of genetic polymorphism exist: transient polymorphism, in which a particular form is in the process of spreading through a population, causing the relative proportion of phenotypes to alter; and balanced polymorphism, in which two or more forms coexist in a stable ratio within a population, each form possessing both advantageous and disadvantageous characteristics. An example of balanced polymorphism is the occurrence of sickle-cell disease, a genetic disease that principally affects Black populations of central Africa and is characterized by an abnormal form of the blood pigment haemoglobin (haemoglobin $\mathbf{S}$ ) and sickle-shaped red blood cells. Three different types of individual occur in such populations: those who have two alleles ( $A A$ ) for normal haemoglobin and therefore do not suffer from the disease; those with one normal and one abnormal allele (AS), who are described as having the sickle-cell trait and generally suffer no symptoms; and those with two abnormal alleles (SS), who suffer a chronic and eventually fatal form of anaemia. Normally such a harmful allele would have been eliminated from the population by the process of natural selection, but it is maintained in this case because people with the sickle-cell trait are resistant to a severe form of malaria endemic in central Africa. They exhibit heterozygote advantage (see BALANCING SELECTION). Environmental polymorphism is not due to genetic differences, an example being the caste system of social insects, in which the different morphs$\textemdash$i.e. workers, drones, and queens$\textemdash$are determined by the larvae receiving different types of food. Many authorities prefer the term polyphenism for this phenomenon. Compare MUTATION.
- See also RESTRICTION FRAGMENT LENGTH POLYMORPHISM; SINGLE NUCLEOTIDE POLYMORPHISM.
## References

[^1]: https://spdload.com/blog/software-development-glossary/
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) Glossary by Capterra]]
[^4]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^5]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]