## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (PGD) a diagnostic procedure carried out on embryos at the earliest stage of development, before implantation in the uterus. Access to these early embryos requires the in vitro fertilization of egg cells: three days after fertilization one or two cells are aspirated from the six-cell embryo; alternatively, tissue is removed from an embryo at five or six days, when it has reached the blastocyst stage. Isolated cells can then be genetically analysed, allowing the transfer of selected embryos to the mother. One of the major applications of PGD is for the detection (using the FISH technique) of chromosomal abnormalities, especially aneuploidies (e.g. Down's syndrome); the procedure is used mainly in women who have had repeated miscarriages or have failed to achieve pregnancy after several IVF treatment cycles, which could be due to the presence of such abnormalities in the embryo. PGD can also be used to detect defective genes responsible for hereditary disorders (e.g. the commonest form of cystic fibrosis, Huntington's disease) and genes associated with susceptibility to certain cancers. When a defect is detected, genetic counseling is offered.
## Source[^2]
- (PGD) The screening of early embryos for diseasecausing genes to enable the selection of 'healthy' embryos. The technique is used in conjunction with in vitro fertilization, which typically yields a number of embryos, and currently is approved in the UK for testing over 400 conditions. A single cell is removed from an eight-stage embryo and subjected to genetic testing; for example, it may be tested for a specific disease allele using either a gene probe and fluorescence in situ hybridization or the polymerase chain reaction. If the results are satisfactory, the embryo is implanted in the mother's uterus, and development proceeds. Removal of a single cell at this stage does not affect the embryo's subsequent development. PGD can help especially when couples who are being treated for fertility problems also have a history of genetic disease. However, use of PGD can be extended in nontherapeutic ways, such as choosing a baby's sex or selecting particular desired traits to produce so-called 'designer babies'. These highly controversial applications of PGD are prohibited in certain countries, including the UK. Preimplantation tissue typing is a related technique used to select embryos that are an exact tissue match for a living close relative, e.g. a sibling, who is suffering from a life-limiting blood disorder such as beta thalassaemia or Fanconi anaemia. The aim is for the healthy 'saviour sibling' to provide, in due course, stem cells that will help to treat the sick relative.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]