## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A system of symbolic logic, designed to study propositions. A proposition is a statement that is true or false. There are many alternative but equivalent definitions of propositional calculus, one of the more useful definitions for the computer scientist being given here.
- The only terms of the propositional calculus are the two symbols $T$ and $F$ (standing for true and false) together with variables for logical propositions, which are denoted by small letters $p, q, r, \ldots$; these symbols are basic and indivisible and are thus called [[atomic formulas]].
- The propositional calculus is based on the study of well-formed formulas, or [[Well-formed formulas|WFF]] for short. New wff of the form$$\begin{aligned}& (\sim \!\!A),(A \vee B),(A \wedge B) \\& (A \supset B),(A \equiv B) \\& \text { (IF A THEN B ELSE } C \text { ) }\end{aligned}$$are formed from given wff $A, B$, and $C$ using logical connectives; respectively they are called negation, disjunction, conjunction, implication, equivalence, and conditional. If $\langle \text{atf}\rangle$ denotes the class of atomic formulas, then the class of wff $\langle \text{wff} \rangle$, can be described in BNF notation (see fig. 1).
- Proofs and theorems within the propositional calculus are conducted in a formal and rigorous manner: certain basic axioms are assumed and certain rules of inference are followed. In particular these rules must deal with the various connectives. $$\begin{aligned} \langle wff\rangle::= \langle atf \rangle | &(\textasciitilde \langle wff\rangle) | (\langle wff \rangle \lor \langle wff\rangle)| \\ &(\langle wff \rangle \land \langle wff \rangle)| (\langle wff \rangle \supset \langle wff \rangle)| \\ &(\langle wff \rangle \equiv \langle wff \rangle) | \\ &(\text{IF } \langle wff \rangle \text{ THEN } \langle wff \rangle \text{ ELSE } \langle wff \rangle)\end{aligned}$$
- Fig. 1 Class of wff in BNF notation$$\begin{aligned}& \frac{\Gamma \Rightarrow A \text { and } \Gamma \Rightarrow B}{\Gamma \Rightarrow A \wedge B} \\& \frac{\Gamma \Rightarrow A \wedge B}{\Gamma \Rightarrow A} \quad \frac{\Gamma \Rightarrow A \wedge B}{\Gamma \Rightarrow B}\end{aligned}$$
- Fig. 2 Rule of inference for $\wedge$
- Propositional Calculus
	- The rules of inference are stated using a form such as$$\stackrel{\alpha}{\beta}$$
	- The rule should be interpreted to mean that on the assumption that $\alpha$ is true, it can be deduced that $\beta$ is then true. Logicians often use the notation $\alpha \mid\!\text{-}\beta$. In writing the rules it is convenient to employ a notation such as$$\Gamma, A \Rightarrow B$$
	- $\Gamma$ is some set of wff whose truth has been established; $A$ and $B$ are some other wff highlighted for the purposes of the rule; $\Rightarrow$ denotes implication (to avoid confusion with the symbol $\supset$ ). For example, the rules for the introduction and elimination respectively of the $\land$ connective are shown in Fig. 2.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]