## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. one of a group of hormone-like substances present in a wide variety of tissues and body fluids (including the uterus, brain, lungs, kidney, and semen). Prostaglandins have many actions; for example, they cause contraction of smooth muscle (including that of the uterus), dilation of blood vessels, and are mediators in the process of inflammation (aspirin and other NSAIDs act by blocking their production). They are also involved in the production of mucus in the stomach, which provides protection against acid gastric juice; use of NSAIDs reduces this effect and predisposes to peptic ulceration, the principal side-effect of these drugs. There are nine classes of prostaglandins (PGA-I), within which individual prostaglandins are denoted by numerals (e.g. $\mathrm{PGE}_{1}$ ). Synthetic prostaglandins are used to induce labour or produce abortion (see DINOPROSTONE; GEMEPROST) and to treat peptic ulcers (see MISOPROSTOL), congenital heart disease in newborn babies (see ALPROSTADIL), and glaucoma (see LATANOPROST).
## Source[^2]
- (PG) Any of a group of lipid-soluble organic compounds causing a range of physiological effects in animals. Prostaglandins have been detected in most body tissues, in some cases acting locally and in others having effects on more distant target tissues. They are synthesized within cell membranes from arachidonic acid, which is derived from membrane phospholipids by the action of phospholipase A. The arachidonic acid is converted by the enzyme cyclo-oxygenase (prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase) to prostaglandin $\mathrm{G}_{2}$, the precursor of all the various classes of prostaglandins, prostacyclin, and thromboxane $\mathrm{A}_{2}$$\textemdash$ collectively known as the prostanoids. PGs are short-lived signal molecules that bind to G-protein-coupled cell receptors. Among their array of effects, they cause the contraction of smooth muscle, e.g. in stimulating contractions of the uterus during parturition. Hence, natural and synthetic prostaglandins are used to induce abortion or labour in humans and domestic animals. Prostaglandins are also involved in inflammation, being released from macrophages and mast cells in response to injury or infection. Drugs such as aspirin and ibuprofen exert their pain-relieving effects by blocking prostaglandin synthesis.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]