## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (wave mechanics) The theory of atomic and nuclear systems, providing a mathematical framework for quantum theory. In 1926 Erwin Schrödinger developed a wave equation to describe the behavior of elementary particles in materials by treating them as matter waves or de Broglie waves, following the hypothesis by de Broglie that electrons, etc., could be described both in terms of particle-like and wave-like behavior. This wave equation, now known as the Schrödinger equation, described the motion of de Broglie waves in a given potential energy, for instance in a potential well, or inside a crystalline solid. The Schrödinger equation for the electron, for example, is:$$\left(\frac {- \hbar^ {2}}{2 m}\right) \nabla^ {2} \Psi + V \Psi = j \hbar \left(\frac {\partial \Psi}{\partial t}\right)$$where $\hbar$ is the rationalized Planck constant, $m$ is the mass of the electron, $V$ is the potential in which it moves, and $\nabla^2$ is the Laplace operator. This is a differential equation in the quality $\Psi$, which is known as the wavefunction; this is a complex quality that can be thought of as a measure of the amplitude of the de Broglie wave describing the electron. Hence the square of the wavefunction is a measure of the intensity of the electron wave, or$$| \Psi (x, y, z, t) | ^ {2} d x d y d z$$gives the probability of finding an electron at time $t$ in the incremental volume element $dxdydz$ located at $(x, y, z)$.
- Solutions of the Schrödinger equation can be found analytically only for simple examples, usually by eliminating the time dependence by assuming the de Broglie waves have a typical $\exp (\mathrm{j}\omega t)$ time dependence and solving the time-independent Schrödinger equation:$$\left(\frac {-\hbar ^ {2}}{2 m}\right) \nabla^ {2} \psi + V \psi = E \psi$$Now $\psi$ is the time-independent component of the wavefunction and $E$ is the total energy of the electron, and the equation describes the physical variation of the electron wavefunction in space. Analytical solutions of the time-independent Schrödinger equation can be used to provide valuable insight into the behavior of electrons in atoms and solids. For example, the solution of a particle in a potential well leads to the concept of quantum numbers describing the allowed energy states in the well. This structure is known as a quantum well. By using a periodic value for the potential energy $V$, solutions of the Schrödinger equation are found to describe the origins of energy-band structure in crystalline solids; this is the Kronig-Penney model of energy-band structure.
- https://www.livescience.com/33816-quantum-mechanics-explanation.html
	- A short introduction to quantum mechanics, with links for further reading
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]