## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A discrete or integrated circuit whose output has two stable states, i.e. two sustainable values of output voltage, to which it is driven by the movement of its input voltage past two well-defined trigger values. A rise in input voltage above one trigger level causes the output to switch to one state. A fall in input voltage below the other trigger level causes the output to switch to the other state. The difference between the positive and negative thresholds is known as the circuits hysteresis. For the output to change, the input must exceed the hysteresis and be of the appropriate polarity. Schmitt trigger circuits are frequently used to clean up signals from switches and digital transducers.
- Logic signals become corrupted as they travel through a system; the switching edges become exponentials, ringing can occur, and noise may be added. Feeding such a signal through a Schmitt trigger restores the rising and falling edges to a fast transition between the voltages corresponding to the 0 and 1 logic states.
## Source[^2]
- A bistable circuit in which the output voltage level is binary, is determined by the magnitude of the input signal, and is independent of the input signal waveform. The output level changes to the high level when the input signal exceeds a predetermined value. It falls to the low level when the input signal magnitude drops below a predetermined value. The circuit inevitably exhibits hysteresis; the amount of hysteresis is determined by the components in the circuit and can be altered so that the desired switching values can be selected.
- The Schmitt trigger can be used in binary logic circuits in order to maintain the integrity of the logical one and zero levels. It can also be used with a variety of analogue waveforms as a level detector, i.e. it acts as a trigger for other circuits or devices when the magnitude of the input waveform exceeds or falls below the predetermined levels. The device can also generate a rectangular pulse train from a variety of input waveforms.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]