## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A subdivision of a track on a magnetic disk that represents the smallest portion of data that can be modified by overwriting. Each sector has a unique address, which contains the location of the track and the sector number. In order to read an address or data the drive decoding electronics must be synchronized to the data stream. To achieve this a special pattern, the preamble, is written. Following the preamble comes the address mark or data mark as appropriate.
- A disk may be soft-sectored or hard-sectored. In soft-sectoring, the size and position of the sectors is determined by the control electronics and software: disk drives generate an index signal once per revolution of the disk, and when this is received from the drive unit all the sectors of a track are written in one continuous operation. On a hard-sectored disk, the start of each sector is related to a sector signal generated by the disk drive and is positively related to the position of the disk. Hard-sectoring can achieve higher packing of sectors since it is not necessary to have large intersector gaps to accommodate speed variations.
## Source[^2]
- A part of the economy. Sectors can be delimited in a number of different ways. One way is by the bodies organizing expenditures: thus the economy is divided between the public sector, that is, the government at various levels and government-controlled bodies; the corporate sector, which is companies; and the personal sector, which is individuals, and unincorporated businesses. For national income accounting purposes the rest of the world is sometimes regarded as a sector. Sectors may also be distinguished by the type of product: a primary sector, that is, agriculture and mining; a secondary, or manufacturing, sector; and a tertiary, or services, sector. See also INDUSTRIAL SECTOR; ORGANIZED SECTOR; SENSITIVE SECTORS.
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]