---
aliases:
  - shares
---
## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- One of a number of titles of ownership in a company. Most companies are limited by shares, enabling investors to limit their liability if the company fails to the amount paid for (or owing on) the shares. A share is a chose in action, conferring on its owner a legal right to the part of the company's profits (usually by payment of a dividend) and to any voting rights attaching to that share (see voting SHARES; A SHARES). Companies are obliged to keep a public record of the rights attaching to each class of share. The common classes of shares are: ordinary shares, which have no guaranteed amount of dividend but carry voting rights; and preference shares, which receive dividends (and/or repayment of capital on winding-up) before ordinary shares, but which have no voting rights. Shares in public companies may be bought and sold in an open market, such as a stock exchange. Shares in a private company are generally subject to restrictions on sale, such as that they must be offered to existing shareholders first or that the directors' approval must be sought before they are sold elsewhere. See also CUMULATIVE PREFERENCE SHARE; DEFERRED ORDINARY SHARE; FOUNDERS' SHARES; FULLY PAID SHARE; PARTLY PAID SHARE; PREFERRED ORDINARY SHARE; REDEEMABLE SHARES; SHARES OUTSTANDING; SUBSCRIPTION SHARES; TERM SHARES.
## Source[^2]
- A part of the ownership of a company. Shares may be held by individuals or other companies. Company law requires companies to treat all shareholders of any given type alike as regards dividends, or division of the assets on liquidation. Ordinary shares normally carry voting rights, though it is possible to have some non-voting shares. In some countries there may be limits on the total votes cast by any one shareholder. Preference shares rank before ordinary shares for dividends, but have no vote, and debentures rank before preference and ordinary shares for dividends. Debentures carry fixed interest, but the holders have the right to take over control of a company if these are not paid. A share register is an official list of the names and addresses of shareholders; a share certificate is a document proving ownership. In some countries, but not the UK, companies can have bearer shares, where there is no central share register, and the holder of share certificates is deemed to own the shares. See also A-SHARE; DEFERRED SHARE; NON-VOTING SHARE; VOTING SHARE.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]