## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- The system of units of measurement adopted internationally for scientific and technical use under the Système International d'Unités. There are seven fundamental units-the meter, second, kilogram, ampere, kelvin, candela, and mole-of seven dimensionally independent physical quantities. Other units are derived algebraically from these base units without the use of numerical factors, or are dimensionless (like the radian). The symbols for all units are standardized, as are the prefixes (and their symbols) that represent decimal multiples (e.g. nano-, micro-, milli-, kilo-, mega-, giga-) of the units.
## Source[^2]
- Système International d'Unités: an international metric system of units used in science and increasingly for commercial purposes. It is based on the seven basic units: meter, kilogram, second, ampere, kelvin, candela, and mole. Derived units with special names include the hertz (frequency), joule (energy), volt (potential), and watt (power). They are used with a standard set of multiples and sub-multiples, including hecto- ( $\times 100$ ), kilo$(\times 1000)$, centi- $(\times 1 / 100)$, and milli- $(\times 1 / 1000)$.
## Source[^3]
- (Système International d'Unités) the internationally agreed system of units now in use for all scientific purposes. Based on the meter-kilogram-second system, SI units have seven base units and two supplementary units. Measurements of all other physical quantities are expressed in derived units, consisting of two or more base units. Tables 1.1 and 1.2 (Appendix 1) list the base units and the derived units having special names; all these units are defined in the dictionary.
- Decimal multiples of SI units are expressed using specified prefixes; where possible a prefix representing 10 raised to a power that is a multiple of three should be used. Prefixes are listed in Table 1.3 (Appendix 1).
## Source[^4]
- Système International d'Unités: the international system of units now recommended for all scientific purposes. A coherent and rationalized system of units derived from the m.k.s. units (a metric system based on the meter, kilogram, and second), SI units have superseded c.g.s. units and Imperial units. The system has seven base units and two dimensionless units (formerly called supplementary units), all other units being derived from these nine units. There are 22 derived units with special names. Each unit has an agreed symbol (a capital letter or an initial capital letter if it is named after a scientist, otherwise the symbol consists of one or two lower-case letters). Decimal multiples of the units are indicated by a set of prefixes; when possible a prefix representing 10 raised to a power that is a multiple of three should be used. See Appendix 1.
## Source[^5]
- The internationally agreed system of units intended for all scientific and technical purposes. The system is based on the MKS system and replaces the CGS and Imperial systems of units. Units in the SI system can be base units, derived units, or dimensionless units.
- The base units are an arbitrarily defined set of dimensionally independent physical quantities. In any purely mechanical system of units only three base units - of mass, length, and time - are required. In a consistent electric and magnetic system four base units are needed. In the SI system there are seven base units: the meter, kilogram, second, ampere, kelvin, candela (the unit of luminous intensity), and mole (the unit of amount of substance). Each base unit has a special symbol.
- The derived units are formed by the combination, by multiplication and/or division, of two or more base units without the use of numerical factors. The unit of speed, for example, is formed from the combination of one meter divided by one second; this can be expressed in terms of the symbols of the units: $\mathrm{m~s}^{-1}$ or $\mathrm{m/s}$ . Some derived units have special names, such as coulomb, volt, hertz, or joule. The coulomb, which is the derived unit of charge, is formed from a combination of one ampere times one second (A s in symbol form). The named derived units have special symbols; for example, C is the symbol for coulomb. There are two named dimensionless units, the radian and steradian, which are the units of plane and solid angle, respectively.
- A set of fourteen prefixes, including micro- and kilo-, are used with the SI units to form decimal multiples and submultiples of the units. The symbol of a prefix can be combined with the symbol of the unit, as in mA (milliampere).
- SI units and SI prefixes, together with their symbols, are given in Tables 6-9, in the back matter.
- When considering electric and magnetic quantities a fourth term is required in addition to the fundamental units of mass, length, and time, for their complete definition. In the MKS system the fourth quantity is the permeability of free space, $\mu_0$ , which is defined as $4\pi \times 10^{-7}$ henry per meter. In the SI system it is the ampere that is the fundamental unit and $\mu_0$ then has the value $4\pi \times 10^{-7}$ henry per meter.
- http://www.bipm.org/en/measurement-units/
	- The SI Brochure, from the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (BIPM)
	- #comment Page isn't working
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^4]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^5]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]