## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A statistical procedure whereby a quantity computed from data samples is compared with theoretical values of standard probability distributions. Formally it is a comparison between a null-hypothesis, $\mathrm{H}_{0}$ (for example that there is no difference between the means of two populations), and an alternative hypothesis, $\mathrm{H}_{1}$, (that a real difference exists). If $\mathrm{H}_{0}$ is assumed to be true, the probability distribution of the test statistic can be computed or tabulated. If the test statistic exceeds the critical value corresponding to a probability level of $\alpha$ per cent, the null-hypothesis is rejected at the $\alpha$ per cent significance level. The most commonly used levels of significance are $5 \%$, $1 \%$, and $0.1 \%$. Care must be taken to specify exactly what alternative hypothesis is being tested. Tests involving both tails of the probability distribution are known as two-tailed tests; those involving only one tail are one-tailed tests. See also ANALYSIS OF VARIANCE, CHI-SQUARED DISTRIBUTION, GOODNESS-OF-FIT TEST, MULTIPLE-RANGE TESTS, STUDENT'S T DISTRIBUTION.
## Source[^2]
- For the individual significance of a parameter in a linear regression, a two-tailed test of the null hypothesis $H_{0}: \theta_{i}=0$ against the alternative $H_{1}: \theta_{i} \neq 0$, or a one-tailed test of $H_{0}: \theta_{i} \leq 0$ against $H_{1}: \theta_{i}>0$ (or $H_{0}: \theta_{i} \geq 0$ against $H_{1}: \theta_{i}<0$ ). This is a particular case of a t-test where the null hypothesis is interpreted as showing that the corresponding exogenous variable $x_{i}$ has no explanatory power in the regression. For the joint significance of a subset of parameters, a test of the null hypothesis that all parameters in the subset are zero against the alternative hypothesis that at least one of these parameters is not zero; this is a particular case of an F-test.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]