## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Imitation of the behavior of some existing or intended system, or some aspect of that behavior. Examples of areas where simulation is used include communication network design, where simulation can be used to explore overall behavior, traffic patterns, trunk capacity, etc., and weather forecasting, where simulation can be used to predict likely developments in the weather pattern. More generally, simulation is widely used as a design aid for both small and large systems, and is also used extensively in the training of people such as airline pilots or military commanders. It is a major application of digital computers and is the major application of analogue computers.
- From an implementation viewpoint, a simulation is usually classified as being either discrete event or continuous. For a [[discrete event simulation]] it must be possible to view all significant changes to the state of the system as distinct events that occur at specific points in time; the simulation then achieves the desired behavior by modelling a sequence of such events, treating each individually. By contrast, a continuous simulation views changes as occurring gradually over a period of time and tracks the progress of these gradual changes. Clearly the choice between these two in any particular case is determined by the nature of the system to be simulated and the purposes that the simulation is intended to achieve.
- Although the distinction between simulation and emulation is not always clear, an emulation is normally 'realistic' in the sense that it could be used as a direct replacement for all or part of the system that is emulated. In comparison, a simulation may provide no more than an abstract model of some aspect of a system.
## Source[^2]
- Recreating or modelling a hypothetical situation in order to consider its likely outcomes and to develop problem-solving strategies. In computer simulation all the available data is fed into a computer, which enables a range of possible strategies to be compared. Uncertainty may be modeled by the use of random numbers, as in a Monte Carlo simulation, or worst cases by the use of stress testing. In laboratory simulation situations are realistically recreated in order to assess possible results or responses. Simulation is widely used in risk analysis, financial modelling, and marketing.
## Source[^3]
- The use of quantitative models to represent the working of an economy. Given assumptions about how an economy works, simulation is used to see how a model economy responds to changes in these assumptions, changes in the distribution of stochastic shocks, or changes in economic policy. Simulation models often use numerical methods, as their structure is too complicated for analytical conclusions about their behavior to be obtainable. See also Monte Carlo method.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]