## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A facility available on modern microcomputers where the machine is made inactive while preserving screen layout, program states, etc. The machine is not turned off (compare HIBERNATE), but its power consumption is reduced. It can quickly be returned to an active state and users can pick up work where they left off. Users might be required to enter their password before they can access the restored system.
## Source[^2]
- $n$. a state of natural unconsciousness, during which the brain's activity is not apparent (apart from the continued maintenance of basic bodily functions, such as breathing) but can be detected by means of an electroencephalogram (EEG). Different stages of sleep are recognized by different EEG wave patterns. Drowsiness is marked by short irregular waves; as sleep deepens the waves become slower, larger, and more irregular. This slow-wave sleep is periodically interrupted by episodes of paradoxical, or REM (rapid-eye-movement), sleep, when the EEG pattern is similar to that of an awake and alert person. Dreaming occurs during REM sleep. The two states of sleep alternate in cycles of from 30 to 90 minutes, REM sleep constituting about a quarter of the total sleeping time.
## Source[^3]
- A readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals. Usually accompanied by physical relaxation, the onset of sleep in humans and other mammals is marked by a change in the electrical activity of the brain, which is recorded by an electroencephalogram as waves of low frequency and high amplitude (slow-wave sleep). This is interspersed by short bouts of high-frequency low-amplitude waves (similar to wave patterns produced when awake) associated with restlessness, dreaming, and rapid eye movement (REM); this is called REM (or paradoxical) sleep and is often accompanied by an increased pulse rate and dilation of the pupils. Humans typically experience four or five cycles of non-REM and REM sleep per night, with the latter accounting for around $20 \%$ of the total. Four stages can be distinguished in each phase of non-REM sleep, with stages 3 and 4 considered to be the deepest, slow-wave sleep. Several regions of the brain are involved in sleep and arousal, especially the reticular formation of the brainstem and certain pontine nuclei (see PONS). Sleep is essential for life, but understanding of its function remains elusive. It may be necessary for repair and maintenance of neural connections in the brain or for consolidating memories and learning. The latter is supported by the finding that individuals have impaired memory of tasks learned immediately before a period of sleep deprivation.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]