## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Websites that offer social networking services. Social media platforms became very popular in the 2000s and now have billions of users worldwide. Registered members of these sites are able to designate other members as 'friends', thus creating social networks based on shared interests, etc. The sites offer services that allow friends to communicate easily, for example chat rooms, blogs, instant messaging, and uploading and sharing of images and videos. They also encourage users to post an online profile of themselves, which other users can access, as a means of making new friends. The easy availability of such information and the difficulty of establishing its veracity have caused security and privacy concerns to be raised about social networking websites, especially because many users are young people. See Facebook, LinkedIn, MySpace, Twitter. See also USER-GENERATED CONTENT.
## Source[^2]
- Applications that enable users to interact with one another over the Internet by posting or linking to text, pictures, and videos (see USER-GENERATED CONTENT). Social media platforms became very popular in the 2000s and now have billions of users worldwide. In a simple case, an individual maintains a blog, an online journal that can be freely accessed and commented on. Other applications are more sophisticated and specialized. Facebook, founded in 2004 and the leading site for informal social networking, allows users to specify which content is visible to all users and which is visible only to a specified set of 'friends'; Twitter, founded in 2006, involves the posting of short messages ('tweets') that are received by all users who have chosen to 'follow' the sender. The application encourages users to make new contacts, thereby building up their networks. Linked-In, founded in 2003, is the premier tool for business and professional networking.
- The number of people using social media and the speed and ease with which information can be exchanged make these sites an increasingly vital channel for business communication. Because they enable companies to interact directly with customers, they have become an important vehicle for public relations, marketing, and marketing research, as well as advertising (see VIRAL MARKETING). The fact that social media are now increasingly accessed from mobile devices means that business messaging can be both time- and location-sensitive. Maintaining a lively blog and a presence on Facebook and Twitter is now considered essential by many companies, who may employ staff specifically to manage their social-media operations.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]