## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A program that manipulates tables consisting of rows and columns of cells, and displays them on a screen; the cells contain numerical information and formulas, or text. Each cell has a unique row and column identifier, but different spreadsheets use different conventions so the top left-hand cell may be A1, 1A, or 1,1. The value in a numerical cell is either typed in or is calculated from a formula in the cell; this formula can involve other cells. Each time the value of a cell is changed by typing in a new value from the keyboard, the value of all other cells whose values depend on this one are recalculated. The ability of the cells to store text is used to annotate the table with column headings, titles, etc.
- The spreadsheet is particularly suited to the personal computer since it requires the fast and flexible display handling that is a feature of such systems. The common characteristic of all spreadsheets is the way the display screen of the computer acts as a window onto the matrix of cells; if there are more rows and columns than will fit on the screen, then the spreadsheet can be scrolled horizontally or vertically to bring into view previously hidden rows or columns. To change a value it is only necessary to move the cursor into the required cell displayed on the screen and type in the new value.
- Spreadsheets can be used for storing and amending accounts, 'what if?' financial projections, and many other applications involving tables of numbers with interdependent rows and columns. A spreadsheet is often a component of an integrated office system. Excel is the most widely used spreadsheet application. See also MULTIDIMENSIONAL SPREADSHEET.
## Source [^2]
- A computer application used for tabular calculations. A spreadsheet display consists of a large number of cells arranged in rows and columns. Generally, columns are labelled by a letter, or combination of letters, and rows are labelled by numbers. Each cell in the array has a unique identification: A1, A2, etc., B1, B2, etc. The user can enter text, numbers, or formulas into individual cells. The formulas can be used to perform calculations on values in other cells. For example, A1\*100/B1 takes the value in cell A1 and expresses it as a percentage of the value in cell B1. A formula of the type sum (A1:A20) adds all the values in the cells from A1 to A20. Values and formulas can be copied from a single cell to a block of cells. In this way it is possible to set up complex calculations for accounting or financial modelling purposes. Spreadsheet programs generally have a facility for producing graphs and charts automatically from the data. Widely used spreadsheets include Excel and Lotus 1-2-3.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[Home Page - A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]