## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- (1) The establishment of an international, national, or industrial agreement concerning the specification or production of components—electrical, electronic, or software—or equipment in general, or of procedures for the use or testing of equipment or software.
- (2) The act of committing an organization to use specific standards to meet particular needs whenever they arise within the organization. Typically an organization might standardize upon use of a specific compiler for some language, some specific application package, or a particular database management system.
## Source[^2]
- (1) The process of relating a physical magnitude or the indicated value of a measuring instrument, such as a voltmeter, to the primary standard unit of that quantity. 
- (2) A nationally or internationally agreed system for the standardization of electronic or electrical components or devices. If electronic devices, etc., are produced haphazardly by different manufacturers the ease of use of such components is severely limited. The convenience of the user is greatly increased when there are several sources from which devices may be chosen and when the devices are interchangeable. Interchangeability is greatly increased if the devices are produced only in certain physical sizes and in a range of predetermined values that are easily identifiable, usually by a color code.
- These values are the preferred values and are chosen by certain technical bodies although other values for special applications are not precluded. Broadcast transmissions and other means of international telecommunications are also greatly facilitated by international agreement on the frequency bands to be used and on harmonization of equipment between the sender and receiver.
- The main international body that determines standards for telecommunications is the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). The principal international standardizing bodies for electronic components and parts are the various technical committees of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), with some broad areas defined by the International Standards Organization (ISO).
- In the United Kingdom the body that determines national standards is the British Standards Institute (BSI), acting on advice from its various technical committees. The Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE) is concerned with standardization for electronic equipment.
- In the United States there are various bodies and committees that determine standards. These include the Electronic Industries Association (EIA), the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (IEEE), the Joint Electron Device Engineering Council (JEDEC), the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the National Aeronautical and Space Administration (NASA), the Federal Communications Committee (FCC), and the National Television System Committee (NTSC).
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]