## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- n. a genus of Gram-positive nonmotile spherical bacteria occurring in chains. Most species are saprophytes; some are pathogenic. Many pathogenic species are haemolytic, i.e. they have the ability to destroy red blood cells in blood agar. This provides a useful basis for classifying the many different strains. Strains of S. pyogenes (the $\beta$-haemolytic streptococci) are associated with many infections, including scarlet fever, and produce many exotoxins. Strains of the $\alpha$-haemolytic streptococci are associated with bacterial endocarditis. The species $S$. pneumoniae (formerly Diplococcus pneumoniae) $\textendash$ the pneumococcus $\textendash$ is associated with serious diseases, including pneumonia, pneumococcal meningitis, and septicaemia; it is also a common bacterial cause of ear infections (see also PNEUMOCOCCAL VACCINE). It occurs in pairs, surrounded by a capsule (see QUEllung REACTION). S. mutans has been shown to cause dental caries. See also Lancefield Classification; STREPTOKINASE. $\textemdash$streptococcal adj.
## Source[^2]
- A genus of spherical Gram-positive bacteria occurring widely in nature, typically as chains or pairs of cells. Many are saprotrophic and exist as usually harmless commensals inhabiting the skin, mucous membranes, and intestine of humans and animals. Others are parasites, some of which cause diseases. There are several systems of classifying streptococcal species. The Lancefield system, devised by US microbiologist Rebecca Lancefield (1895-1981) in the 1920s, identifies groups serologically according to unique carbohydrate antigens in their cell wall. There are 20 Lancefield groups, designated A to V; the common pathogen S. pyogenes, responsible for 'strep throat' and scarlet fever, is a group A streptococcus, while S. agalactiae is group B, and so on. However, some species lack a Lancefield antigenic marker, notably S. pneumoniae, which is responsible for pneumococcal infections ranging from bronchitis to septicaemia and meningitis. Another classification system depends on the pattern of breakdown (haemolysis) of blood cells when the bacterium is incubated on blood agar. Alpha-haemolytic bacteria, e.g. S. pneumoniae, cause only a partial haemolysis, whereas beta-haemolytic bacteria, e.g. S. pyogenes, lyse the blood cells completely, forming a clear zone around the bacterial colonies.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]