## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- Two dissimilar metals joined at each end to form an electrical circuit. If the two junctions are maintained at different temperatures an electromotive force (e.m.f.) is developed between them as a result of the Seebeck effect (see THERMOELECTRIC EFFECTS). The e.m.f. is not affected by the presence of other metal junctions provided that they are all maintained at the same temperature. The thermocouple may therefore be connected to a suitable measuring instrument and used as a thermometer. It is convenient in use since it functions over a wide temperature range, it can be used to measure temperature at a very small area, and may be used remotely from the indicating instrument. The range of temperatures measured depends on the materials used.
- In practice one junction is held at $0^{\circ}\mathrm{C}$ and then the e.m.f. $E$ is given by$$E = \alpha T^{2} + \beta T$$where $T$ is the temperature of the other junction – the ‘hot’ junction–and $\alpha$ and $\beta$ are constants dependent on the metals used. At a temperature $T_{\mathrm{N}}$ where$$T_{\mathrm{N}} = - \frac{\beta}{2\alpha}$$$E$ is a maximum. $T_{\mathrm{N}}$ is termed the neutral temperature and the use of the thermocouple is normally restricted to temperatures in the range $0-T_N \degree C$. Copper/constantan or iron/constantan thermocouples can be used up to $500^{\circ}\mathrm{C}$. Temperatures up to about $1500^{\circ}\mathrm{C}$ may be measured using a platinum/platinum-rodium alloy thermocouple and even higher temperatures may be measured by means of an iridium/iridium-rhodium alloy thermocouple.
- Thermocouple instruments are measuring instruments that use a thermocouple to measure electric current, voltage, or power by means of the heating effect produced by the current in a metallic strip or wire. The current-carrying strip or wire plus thermocouple are sealed into an evacuated container in order to minimize errors in the measurement due to conduction of heat by the air surrounding the conductor.
- The sensitivity of a thermocouple instrument is increased by connecting several couples together in series to form a thermopile. An easily detectable output is produced by heat radiation impinging on the hot junctions. The thermal battery is a thermopile that is used to generate an e.m.f. when heat is supplied to the hot junctions.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]