## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- An organization whose principal purposes include the regulation of relations between employees and employers or employers' associations. A house (or company) union is an association of employees all belonging to the same company, which will probably have no connection with the trade union movement. An industrial (or general) union has members who work in the same industry; it is usually very large. A craft union is a small union of skilled workers. Unions' affairs are now regulated by the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992. This provides that secret ballots must be held for election of unions' executive committees and before any industrial action backed by the union is taken. The Act gives a right to trade union members not to be unjustifiably disciplined by their union (for example for failing to take industrial action). A member can apply to an employment tribunal for a declaration that he or she has been unjustifiably disciplined.
## Source[^2]
- An organization of employees, formed for the purpose of collective bargaining with employers over wages, hours, conditions of service, job security, and manning levels. They collect subscriptions from which to fund services for members such as legal advice about unfair dismissal, and pay during strikes. Trade unions have in the past provided friendly society facilities for their members, including sick and unemployment pay, and may also negotiate price concessions for their members. They may engage in political activity to promote their members' interests, particularly over issues such as legislation affecting security of employment and the social security system. A union's membership may be confined to a narrowly defined group of skills, or may be spread widely over the workforce in general unions. In the UK most unions belong to the Trades Union Congress, an organization representing unions at the national level. Many US unions belong to the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations. The rights and duties of both UK and US trade unions are governed by extensive legislation.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Business and Management 6th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Economics 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]