## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- A semiconductor device having, in general, three terminals that are attached to electrode regions within the device. Current flowing between two of these electrodes is made to vary in response to voltage or current variations imposed on the third electrode. The device is capable of current or voltage amplification depending on the particular circuit implementation employed. It can also be used as a switch by driving it between its maximum and minimum of current flow.
- The transistor was invented in 1948 by Shockley, Brattain, and Bardeen at Bell Telephone Labs. As performance and manufacturing techniques improved, the transistor enabled a huge growth in computer technology.
- See also BIPOLAR TRANSISTOR, FIELD-EFFECT TRANSISTOR, MOSFET.
## Source[^2]
- A multielectrode semiconductor device in which the current flowing between two specified electrodes is controlled or modulated by the voltage applied at the third (control) electrode. The term transistor was originally derived from the phrase transfer resistor, as the resistance of the output electrodes was controlled by the input circuit (transferred). Transistors fall into two major classes: the bipolar junction transistor (BJT) and the field-effect transistor (FET).
- The bipolar junction transistor was derived from the point-contact transistor, which was invented at Bell Telephone Laboratories in 1947 by Bardeen, Brattain, and Shockley. The BJT comprises two p-n junctions placed back-to-back in close proximity, creating three regions in the device $\textendash$ emitter, base, and collector. It utilizes the flow of both electrons and holes across the junctions for its electrical behavior. The current flow through the emitter and collector electrodes is controlled by the voltage across the base-emitter p-n junction.
- In the case of the field-effect transistor, the current flow inside the transistor between source and drain electrodes is controlled by the internal electric field, which is a function of the voltage applied at the third terminal, the gate. The junction field effect transistor (JFET) was invented at Bell Laboratories by Shockley in 1952. In this device the current flow is in the bulk of the semiconductor, along a channel whose cross-sectional area is controlled by the width of the depletion region associated with a reverse-biased p-n junction formed by the gate and channel semiconductors. The current flow is thus in the region of the channel that is free of the gate field.
- In a surface field-effect transistor, the current flow is along a surface of the semiconductor that is separated from the gate electrode by an insulating region. Such a device is known as an insulated-gate field-effect transistor, exemplified by the MOSFET. The surface field-effect transistor was first proposed in the 1930s. It was only realized practically in 1960, when device technology had improved sufficiently to reduce the density of surface defects to a low enough level to enable control of the surface potential by an applied voltage.
- http://www.pbs.org/transistor/index.html
	- A short history of transistors, on the PBS website
	- #comment Not sure if http://www.pbs.org/transistor/index.htmlA was the intentional link but the other one works
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Computer Science 7th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]