## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- $n$. the implantation of an organ or tissue (see GRAFT) from one part of the body to another or from one person (the donor) to another (the recipient). Success for transplantation depends on the degree of compatibility between donor and graft: it is greatest for autografts (selfgrafts), less for allografts (between individuals of the same species), and least for xenografts (between different species; see XENOTRANSPLANTATION). Skin and bone grafting are examples of transplantation techniques in the same individual. A kidney transplant involves the grafting of a healthy kidney from a donor to replace the diseased kidney of the recipient: renal transplantation is the second commonest example of human transplant surgery using allografts (after corneal grafts - see KERATOPLASTY). Bone-marrow, blood-stem-cell, heart, heart-lung, pancreatic, and liver transplants are also very successful. Patients have undergone laryngeal transplantation following laryngectomy. Transplanting organs or tissues between individuals is a difficult procedure because the recipient's immune system perceives the transplant as a foreign object and rejects it. Special treatment (e.g. with immunosuppressant drugs) is needed to prevent transplant rejection, and the less common but equally devastating effects of an attack by the graft's immune cells on the host.
- Ethical questions arise over donated organs. If the donor is living, is the organ properly a gift? If the donor has recently died, how has the death been judged and has consent been given explicitly by the patient or surviving relatives (opting in) or is it assumed if the donor has not forbidden it (opting out)?
## References

[^1]: [[Home Page - Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]