## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- a fat-soluble vitamin that enhances the absorption of calcium and phosphorus from the intestine and promotes their deposition in the bone. It occurs in two forms: ergocalciferol (vitamin $\mathbf{D}_{2}$, calciferol), which is manufactured by plants when the sterol ergosterol is exposed to ultraviolet light, and cholecalciferol (vitamin $\mathbf{D}_{3}$ ), which is produced by the action of sunlight on 7-dehydrocholesterol, a sterol widely distributed in the skin. A deficiency of vitamin D, either from a poor diet or lack of sunlight, leads to decalcified bones and the development of rickets and osteomalacia. Good sources of vitamin D are liver and fish oils. An RNI (see Dietary Reference Values) was set for the first time in 2015, at 10 $\mathrm{ug} / \mathrm{d}$ for all individuals over 4 years of age. Research continues into a possible association between vitamin D levels and multiple sclerosis. Vitamin D is toxic and large doses must therefore be avoided.
## Source[^2]
- A fat-soluble vitamin occurring in the form of two steroid derivatives: vitamin $\mathbf{D}_{2}$ (ergocalciferol, or calciferol), found in yeast; and vitamin $\mathbf{D}_{3}$ (cholecalciferol), which occurs in animals. Vitamin $\mathrm{D}_{2}$ is formed from a steroid by the action of ultraviolet light and $\mathrm{D}_{3}$ is produced by the action of sunlight on a cholesterol derivative in the skin. Fish-liver oils are the major dietary source. The active form of vitamin D (calcitriol) is manufactured in the kidneys in response to the secretion of parathyroid hormone, which occurs when blood calcium levels are low. It causes increased uptake of calcium from the gut and promotes calcium reabsorption by the kidneys, thereby increasing the supply of calcium for bone synthesis. Vitamin D deficiency causes rickets in growing animals and softening of bones (osteomalacia) in mature animals. Both conditions are characterized by weak deformed bones.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]