## Synthesis
- 
## Source [^1]
- pl. n. electromagnetic radiation of extremely short wavelength (beyond the ultraviolet), which pass through matter to varying degrees depending on its density. X-rays are produced when high-energy beams of electrons strike matter. They are physically indistinguishable from gamma rays, produced during radioactive decay. Both are used in diagnostic radiology (see RADIOGRAPHY; NUCLEAR MEDICINE) and in radiotherapy. Great care is needed to avoid unnecessary exposure, because the radiation is harmful to all living things (see IONIZATION; RADIATION SICKNESS). Heavy elements, such as lead and barium, tend to stop X-rays and can be used to shield people from unwanted exposure to ionizing radiation.
## Source[^2]
- Electromagnetic radiation of shorter wavelength than ultraviolet radiation and longer wavelength than gamma radiation. The range of wavelengths is $10^{-11} \mathrm{~m}$ to $10^{-9} \mathrm{~m}$. X-rays can pass through many forms of matter and they are therefore used medically and industrially to examine internal structures. X-rays are produced for these purposes by an X-ray tube.
## Source[^3]
- Electromagnetic radiation of frequencies ranging approximately between those of ultraviolet radiation and gamma rays. They are produced when matter is bombarded with sufficiently energetic electrons and were first observed by Roentgen in 1895. X-rays can be produced as a result of electron transitions from higher to lower energy levels within an atom. X-rays resulting from transitions have a frequency that is characteristic of the material and are therefore termed characteristic X-rays. X-rays are also produced during the rapid decelerations of electrons as they approach the nucleus. These X-rays, a form of bremsstrahlung radiation, have a relatively wide frequency range and are known as continuous X-rays. X-rays of relatively low energy are termed soft X-rays; those at the high-energy portion of the frequency spectrum are hard X-rays.
- X-rays can be reflected, refracted, and polarized and also exhibit interference and diffraction. They interact with matter to produce relatively high energy electrons: the mechanism is the same as in the photoelectric effect. These electrons are usually of sufficiently high energy to ionize a gas or to produce secondary X-rays from the matter. The ionization of a gas can be utilized, in the ionization chamber, to measure the intensity of an X-ray beam.
- X-rays are widely used in radiography to investigate materials that are opaque to visible light but relatively transparent to X-rays. Radiography is used to detect flaws in structures and for diagnostic examinations. Sufficiently high intensities of X-rays of higher energies damage human tissue and X-rays are used in radiotherapy for the therapeutic destruction of diseased tissue. X-rays are also used in X-ray crystallography to investigate and determine crystal structures by using the crystal as a three-dimensional diffraction grating. X-ray lithography systems are being developed.
## References

[^1]: [[(Home Page) Concise Medical Dictionary 10th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^2]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Biology 8th Edition by Oxford Reference]]
[^3]: [[(Home Page) A Dictionary of Electronics and Electrical Engineering 5th Edition by Oxford Reference]]